## 11.1 GENERAL

11.1.1 Purpose Chapter 11 presents criteria for the design and construction of buildings and other structures subject to earthquake ground motions. The speci fi ed earthquake loads are based on postelastic energy dissipation in the structure. Because of this fact, the requirements for design, detailing, and construction shall be satis fi ed, even for structures and members for which load combinations that do not include earthquake loads indicate larger demands than combinations that include earthquake loads.

## CHAPTER 11 SEISMIC DESIGN CRITERIA

Buildings whose purpose is to enclose equipment or machinery and whose occupants are engaged in maintenance or monitoring of that equipment, machinery, or their associated processes shall be permitted to be classi fi ed as nonbuilding structures designed and detailed in accordance with Section 15.5 of this standard.

11.1.2 Scope Every structure and portion thereof, including nonstructural components, shall be designed and constructed to resist the effects of earthquake motions as prescribed by the seismic requirements of this standard. Certain nonbuilding structures, as described in Chapter 15, are also within the scope and shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 15. The following structures are exempt from the seismic requirements of this standard:

1. Detached one- and two-family dwellings that are located where the mapped, short period, spectral response acceleration parameter, SS , is less than 0.4 or where the seismic design category determined in accordance with Section 11.6 is A, B, or C.
2. Detached one- and two-family wood-frame dwellings not included in Exemption 1 with not more than two stories above grade plane, satisfying the limitations of and constructed in accordance with the IRC.
3. Agricultural storage structures that are intended only for incidental human occupancy.
4. Nonbuilding structures that require special consideration of their response characteristics and environment that are not addressed in Chapter 15 and for which other regulations provide seismic criteria, such as vehicular bridges, electrical transmission towers, hydraulic structures, buried utility lines and their appurtenances, and nuclear reactors.
5. Piers and wharves that are not accessible to the general public.

11.1.3 Applicability Structures and their nonstructural components shall be designed and constructed in accordance with the requirements of the following chapters based on the type of structure or component:

Buildings: Chapter 12

Nonbuilding structures: Chapter 15

Nonstructural components: Chapter 13

Seismically isolated structures: Chapter 17

Structures with damping systems: Chapter 18

11.1.4 Alternate Materials and Methods of Construction Alternate materials and methods of construction to those prescribed in the seismic requirements of this standard shall not be used unless approved by the Authority Having Jurisdiction. Substantiating evidence shall be submitted demonstrating that the proposed alternate will be at least equal in strength, durability, and seismic resistance for the purpose intended.

11.1.5 Quality Assurance Quality assurance for seismic forceresisting systems and other designated seismic systems de fi ned in Section 13.2.2 shall be provided in accordance with the requirements of the Authority Having Jurisdiction.

Where the Authority Having Jurisdiction has not adopted quality assurance requirements, or where the adopted requirements are not applicable to the seismic force-resisting system or designated seismic systems as described in Section 13.2.2, the registered design professional in responsible charge of designing the seismic force-resisting system or other designated seismic systems shall submit a quality assurance plan to the Authority Having Jurisdiction for approval. The quality assurance plan shall specify the quality assurance program elements to be implemented.

## 11.2 DEFINITIONS

The following de fi nitions apply only to the seismic provisions of Chapters 11 through 22 of this standard.

ACTIVE FAULT: A fault determined to be active by the Authority Having Jurisdiction from properly substantiated data (e.g., most recent mapping of active faults by the US Geological Survey).

ADDITION: An increase in building area, aggregate fl oor area, height, or number of stories of a structure.

ALTERATION: Any construction or renovation to an existing structure other than an addition.

APPENDAGE: An architectural component such as a canopy, marquee, ornamental balcony, or statuary.

APPROVAL: The written acceptance by the Authority Having Jurisdiction of documentation that establishes the quali fi cation of a material, system, component, procedure, or person to ful fi ll the requirements of this standard for the intended use.

ATTACHMENTS: Means by which nonstructural components or supports of nonstructural components are secured or connected to the seismic force-resisting system of the structure. Such attachments include anchor bolts, welded connections, and mechanical fasteners.

BASE: The level at which the horizontal seismic ground motions are considered to be imparted to the structure.

BASE SHEAR: Total design lateral force or shear at the base.

BOUNDARY ELEMENTS: Portions along wall and diaphragm edges for transferring or resisting forces. Boundary elements include chords and collectors at diaphragm and shear wall perimeters, edges of openings, discontinuities, and reentrant corners.

BUILDING: Any structure whose intended use includes shelter of human occupants.

CANTILEVERED COLUMN SYSTEM: A seismic force-resisting system in which lateral forces are resisted entirely by columns acting as cantilevers from the base.

CHARACTERISTIC EARTHQUAKE: An earthquake assessed for an active fault having a magnitude equal to the best estimate of the maximum magnitude capable of occurring on the fault but not less than the largest magnitude that has occurred historically on the fault.

COLLECTOR (DRAG STRUT, TIE, DIAPHRAGM STRUT): A diaphragm or shear wall boundary element parallel to the applied load that collects and transfers diaphragm shear forces to the vertical elements of the seismic force-resisting system or distributes forces within the diaphragm or shear wall.

COMPONENT: A part of an architectural, electrical, or mechanical system.

Component, Flexible: Nonstructural component that has a fundamental period greater than 0.06 s.

Component, Nonstructural: A part of an architectural, mechanical, or electrical system within or without a building or nonbuilding structure.

Component, Rigid: Nonstructural component that has a fundamental period less than or equal to 0.06 s.

Component, Rugged: A nonstructural component that has been shown to consistently function after design earthquake level or greater seismic events (based on past earthquake experience data or past seismic testing) when adequately anchored or supported. The classi fi cation of a nonstructural component as rugged shall be based on a comparison of the speci fi c component with components of similar strength and stiffness. Common examples of rugged components are AC motors, compressors, and base-mounted horizontal pumps.

## CONCRETE:

Plain Concrete: Concrete that is either unreinforced or contains less reinforcement than the minimum amount speci fi ed in ACI 318 for reinforced concrete.

Reinforced Concrete: Prestressed or nonprestressed concrete reinforced with no less reinforcement than the minimum amount required by ACI 318 and designed on the assumption that the two materials act together in resisting forces.

CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS: The written, graphic, electronic, and pictorial documents describing the design, locations, and physical characteristics of the project required to verify compliance with this standard.

COUPLING BEAM: Abeam that is used to connect adjacent concrete wall elements to make them act together as a unit to resist lateral loads.

DEFORMABILITY: The ratio of the ultimate deformation to the limit deformation.

High-Deformability Element: An element whose deformability is not less than 3.5 where subjected to four fully reversed cycles at the limit deformation.

Limited-Deformability Element: An element that is neither a low-deformability nor a high-deformability element.

Low-Deformability Element: An element whose deformability is 1.5 or less.

## DEFORMATION:

Limit Deformation: Two times the initial deformation that occurs at a load equal to 40% of the maximum strength.

Ultimate Deformation: The deformation at which failure occurs and that shall be deemed to occur if the sustainable load reduces to 80% or less of the maximum strength.

DESIGN EARTHQUAKE: The earthquake effects that are two-thirds of the corresponding risk-targeted maximum considered earthquake (MCER).

DESIGN EARTHQUAKE DISPLACEMENT: See DISPLACEMENT AND DRIFT. See DISPLACEMENT AND DRIFT. See DESIGN STORY DRIFT .

DESIGN EARTHQUAKE GROUND MOTION: The earthquake ground motions that are two-thirds of the corresponding MCER ground motions.

DESIGNATED SEISMIC SYSTEMS: Those nonstructural components that require design in accordance with Chapter 13 and for which the component Importance Factor, I p , is greater than 1.0.

DIAPHRAGM: Roof, fl oor, or other membrane or bracing system acting to transfer the lateral forces to the vertical resisting elements.

Flexure-Controlled Diaphragm: Diaphragm with a fl exural yielding mechanism, which limits the maximum forces that develop in the diaphragm, and a design shear strength or factored nominal shear capacity greater than the shear corresponding to the nominal fl exural strength.

Shear-Controlled Diaphragm: Diaphragm that does not meet the requirements of a fl exure-controlled diaphragm.

Transfer Forces, Diaphragm: Forces that occur in a diaphragm caused by transfer of seismic forces from the vertical seismic force-resisting elements above the diaphragm to other vertical seismic force-resisting elements below the diaphragm because of offsets in the placement of the vertical elements or changes in relative lateral stiffnesses of the vertical elements.

Vertical Diaphragm : See WALL: Shear Wall.

DIAPHRAGM BOUNDARY: A location where shear is transferred into or out of the diaphragm element. Transfer is either to a boundary element or to another force-resisting element.

DIAPHRAGM CHORD: A diaphragm boundary element perpendicular to the applied load that is assumed to take axial stresses caused by the diaphragm moment.

DIAPHRAGM DEFORMATION: The relative horizontal displacement of portions of a diaphragm due to strain in the diaphragm elements and not due to deformations of the vertical elements of the seismic-force resisting system or to diaphragmrotation effects.

DIAPHRAGM-ROTATION EFFECTS: Relative horizontal displacement of portions of a diaphragm due to unequal deformations of the vertical elements of the seismic-force resisting system.

## DISPLACEMENT AND DRIFT:

Design Earthquake Displacement: The displacement at a given location of the structure corresponding to the Design Earthquake.

Design Story Drift: The story drift corresponding to the Design Earthquake, taken at a representative plan location (center of mass or building perimeter, as required by Section 12.8.6).

Maximum Considered Earthquake Displacement: The displacement at a given location of the structure corresponding to the Risk-Targeted Maximum Considered Earthquake (MCER).

Story Drift: The horizontal displacement at the top of the story relative to the bottom of the story at vertically aligned points corresponding to the given loading.

Story Drift Ratio: The story drift divided by the story height, hsx .

DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM: An interconnected system composed primarily of linear components including piping, tubing, conduit, raceways, or ducts. Distribution systems include in-line components such as valves, in-line suspended pumps, and mixing boxes.

ELEMENT ACTION: Element axial, shear, or fl exural behavior.

Critical Action: An action, failure of which would result in the collapse of multiple bays or multiple stories of the building or would result in a signi fi cant reduction in the structure ' s seismic resistance.

Deformation-Controlled Action: Element actions for which reliable inelastic deformation capacity is achievable without critical strength decay.

Force-Controlled Action: Any element actions modeled with linear properties and element actions not classi fi ed as deformation-controlled.

Noncritical Actions: An action, failure of which would not result in either collapse or signi fi cant loss of the structure ' s seismic resistance.

Ordinary Action: An action, failure of which would result in only local collapse, comprising not more than one bay in a single story, and would not result in a signi fi cant reduction of the structure ' s seismic resistance.

ENCLOSURE: An interior space surrounded by walls.

EQUIPMENT SUPPORT: Those structural members or assemblies of members or manufactured elements, including braces, frames, legs, lugs, snuggers, hangers, or saddles, that transmit gravity loads and operating loads between the equipment and the structure.

Equipment Support Structures and Platforms: Assemblies of members or manufactured elements other than integral supports, including, but not limited to, moment frames, braced frames, skids, legs longer than 24 in. (600 mm), or walls that support one or more nonstructural components or systems.

Distribution System Support: Members that provide vertical or lateral seismic resistance for distribution systems, including but not limited to, hangers, braces, pipe racks, and trapeze assemblies.

Equipment Support, Integral: Assemblies of members or manufactured elements and their associated attachments and base plates that provide vertical or lateral support for nonstructural components, are directly connected to both the nonstructural component and the attachment to the structure or foundation, and where the nonstructural component acts as part of the lateral force resisting system of the equipment support. Integral equipment supports include but are not limited to legs less than or equal to 24 in. (600 mm) in length, lugs, skirts, and saddles.

FLEXIBLE CONNECTIONS: Those connections between equipment components that permit rotational and/or translational movement without degradation of performance. Examples include universal joints, bellows expansion joints, and fl exible metal hose.

FOUNDATION GEOTECHNICAL CAPACITY: The maximum pressure or strength design capacity of a foundation based on the supporting soil, rock, or controlled low-strength material.

FOUNDATION STRUCTURAL CAPACITY: The design strength of foundations or foundation components as provided by adopted material standards and as altered by the requirements of this standard.

## FRAME:

Braced Frame: An essentially vertical truss, or its equivalent, of the concentric or eccentric type that is provided in a building frame system or dual system to resist seismic forces.

Concentrically Braced Frame (CBF): A braced frame in which the members are subjected primarily to axial forces. CBFs are categorized as ordinary concentrically braced frames (OCBFs) or special concentrically braced frames (SCBFs).

Eccentrically Braced Frame (EBF): A diagonally braced frame in which at least one end of each brace frames into a beam a short distance from a beam-column or from another diagonal brace.

Moment Frame: A frame in which members and joints resist lateral forces by fl exure and along the axis of the members. Moment frames are categorized as intermediate moment frames (IMFs), ordinary moment frames (OMFs), and special moment frames (SMFs).

## STRUCTURAL SYSTEM:

Building Frame System: A structural system with an essentially complete space frame providing support for vertical loads. Seismic force resistance is provided by shear walls or braced frames.

Dual System: A structural system with an essentially complete space frame providing support for vertical loads. Seismic force resistance is provided by moment-resisting frames and shear walls or braced frames as prescribed in Section 12.2.5.1.

Shear Wall -Frame Interactive System: A structural system that uses combinations of ordinary reinforced concrete shear walls and ordinary reinforced concrete moment frames designed to resist lateral forces in proportion to their rigidities considering interaction between shear walls and frames on all levels.

Space Frame System: A 3-D structural system composed of interconnected members, other than bearing walls, that is capable of supporting vertical loads and, where designed for such an application, is capable of providing resistance to seismic forces.

FRICTION CLIP: A device that relies on friction to resist applied loads in one or more directions to anchor a nonstructural component. Friction is provided mechanically and is not due to gravity loads.

GLAZED CURTAIN WALL: A nonbearing wall that extends beyond the edges of building fl oor slabs and includes a glazing material installed in the curtain wall framing.

GLAZED STOREFRONT: A nonbearing wall that is installed between fl oor slabs, typically including entrances, and includes a glazing material installed in the storefront framing.

GRADEPLANE: Ahorizontal reference plane representing the average of fi nished ground level adjoining the structure at all exterior walls. Where the fi nished ground level slopes away from the exterior walls, the grade plane is established by the lowest points within the area between the structure and the property line or, where the property line is more than 6 ft (1,829 mm) from the structure, between the structure and points 6 ft (1,829 mm) from the structure.

HEATING, VENTILATING, AIR-CONDITIONING, AND REFRIGERATION (HVACR): The equipment, distribution systems, and terminals, excluding interconnecting piping and ductwork that provide, either collectively or individually, the processes of heating, ventilating, air-conditioning, or refrigeration to a building or portion of a building.

INSPECTION, SPECIAL: The observation of the work by a special inspector to determine compliance with the approved construction documents and these standards in accordance with the quality assurance plan.

Continuous Special Inspection: The full-time observation of the work by a special inspector who is present in the area where work is being performed.

Periodic Special Inspection: The part-time or intermittent observation of the work by a special inspector who is present in the area where work has been or is being performed.

INSPECTOR, SPECIAL: A person approved by the Authority Having Jurisdiction to perform special inspection, and who shall be identi fi ed as the owner ' s inspector.

INVERTED PENDULUM-TYPE STRUCTURES: Structures in which more than 50% of the structure ' s mass is concentrated at the top of a slender, cantilevered structure and in which the stability of the mass at the top of the structure relies on rotational restraint to the top of the cantilevered element.

JOINT: The geometric volume common to intersecting members.

LIGHT-FRAME CONSTRUCTION: A method of construction where the structural assemblies (e.g., walls, fl oors, ceilings, and roofs) are primarily formed by a system of repetitive wood or cold-formed steel framing members or subassemblies of these members (e.g., trusses).

LONGITUDINAL REINFORCEMENT RATIO: Area of longitudinal reinforcement divided by the cross-sectional area of the concrete.

MAXIMUM CONSIDERED EARTHQUAKE DISPLACEMENT: See DISPLACEMENT AND DRIFT

MAXIMUM CONSIDERED EARTHQUAKE (MCE) GROUND MOTION: The most severe earthquake effects considered by this standard, more speci fi cally de fi ned in the following two terms:

Maximum Considered Earthquake Geometric Mean ( MCEG ) Peak Ground Acceleration: The most severe earthquake effects considered by this standard determined for geometric mean peak ground acceleration and without adjustment for targeted risk. The MCEG peak ground acceleration adjusted for site effects (PGA M) is used in this standard for evaluation of liquefaction, lateral spreading, seismic settlements, and other soil-related issues. In this standard, general procedures for determining PGAM are provided in Section 11.8.3; site-speci fi c procedures are provided in Section 21.5.

Risk-Targeted Maximum Considered Earthquake ( MCER ) Ground Motion Response Acceleration: The most severe earthquake effects considered by this standard determined for the orientation that results in the largest maximum response to horizontal ground motions and with adjustment for targeted risk. In this standard, general procedures for determining the MCE R ground motion values are provided in Section 11.4.4; sitespeci fi c procedures are provided in Sections 21.1 and 21.2.

MECHANICALLYANCHOREDTANKSORVESSELS: Tanks or vessels provided with mechanical anchors to resist overturning moments.

NONBUILDING STRUCTURE: A structure, other than a building, constructed of a type included in Chapter 15 and within the limits of Section 15.1.1.

NONBUILDING STRUCTURE SIMILAR TO A BUILDING: Anonbuilding structure that is designed and constructed in a manner similar to buildings, responds to strong ground motion in a fashion similar to buildings, and has a basic lateral and vertical seismic force-resisting system conforming to one of the types indicated in Table 12.2-1 or 15.4-1.

OPEN-TOP TANK : A tank without a fi xed roof or cover, fl oating cover, gas holder cover, or dome.

ORTHOGONAL: In two horizontal directions, at 90 degrees to each other.

OWNER: Any person, agent, fi rm, or corporation that has a legal or equitable interest in a property.

P-DELTA EFFECT: The secondary effect on shears and moments of structural members caused by the action of the vertical loads induced by horizontal displacement of the structure resulting from various loading conditions.

PARTITION: A nonstructural interior wall that spans horizontally or vertically from support to support. The supports may be the basic building frame, subsidiary structural members, or other portions of the partition system.

PILE: Deep foundation element, which includes piers, caissons, and piles.

PILE CAP: Foundation elements to which piles are connected, including grade beams and mats.

PREMANUFACTURED MODULAR MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL SYSTEM: A prebuilt, fully or partially enclosed assembly of mechanical and electrical components.

REGISTERED DESIGN PROFESSIONAL: An architect or engineer registered or licensed to practice professional architecture or engineering, as de fi ned by the statutory requirements of the professional registration laws of the state in which the project is to be constructed.

REINFORCED CONCRETE DUCTILE COUPLED WALL: A seismic force-resisting system as de fi ned in ACI 318 Section 2.3 and complying with ACI 318 Section 18.10.9.

SEISMIC DESIGN CATEGORY: A classi fi cation assigned to a structure based on its Risk Category and the severity of the design earthquake ground motion at the site, as de fi ned in Section 11.4.

SEISMIC FORCE-RESISTING SYSTEM: That part of the structural system that has been considered in the design to provide the required resistance to the seismic forces prescribed herein.

SEISMIC FORCES: The assumed forces prescribed herein, related to the response of the structure to earthquake motions, to be used in the design of the structure and its components.

SELF-ANCHORED TANKS OR VESSELS: Tanks or vessels that are stable under design overturning moment without the need for mechanical anchors to resist uplift.

SHEAR PANEL: A fl oor, roof, or wall element sheathed to act as a shear wall or diaphragm.

SITE CLASS: A classi fi cation assigned to a site based on the types of soils present and their engineering properties, as de fi ned in Chapter 20.

STORAGE RACKS, STEEL: A framework or assemblage, comprised of cold-formed or hot-rolled steel structural members, intended for storage of materials, including, but not limited to, pallet storage racks, selective racks, movable-shelf racks, rack-supported systems, automated storage and retrieval systems (stacker racks), push-back racks, pallet- fl ow racks, case- fl ow racks, pick modules, and rack-supported platforms. Other types of racks, such as drive-in or drive-through racks, cantilever racks, portable racks, or racks made of materials other than steel, are not considered steel storage racks for the purpose of this standard.

STORAGE RACKS, STEEL CANTILEVERED : A framework or assemblage comprised of cold-formed or hot-rolled steel structural members, primarily in the form of vertical columns, extended bases, horizontal arms projecting from the faces of the columns, and longitudinal (down-aisle) bracing between columns. There may be shelf beams between the arms, depending

on the products being stored; this de fi nition does not include other types of racks such as pallet storage racks, drive-in racks, drive-through racks, or racks made of materials other than steel.

STORY: The portion of a structure between the tops of two successive fl oor surfaces and, for the topmost story, from the top of the fl oor surface to the top of the roof surface.

STORY ABOVE GRADE PLANE: A story in which the fl oor or roof surface at the top of the story is more than 6 ft (1,829 mm) above grade plane or is more than 12 ft (3,658 mm) above the fi nished ground level at any point on the perimeter of the structure.

STORY DRIFT: See DISPLACEMENT AND DRIFT

STORY SHEAR: The summation of design lateral seismic forces at levels above the story under consideration.

## STRENGTH:

Design Strength: Nominal strength multiplied by a strength reduction factor, ϕ .

Nominal Strength: Strength of a member or cross section calculated in accordance with the requirements and assumptions of the strength design methods of this standard (or the reference documents) before application of any strength-reduction factors.

Required Strength: Strength of a member, cross section, or connection required to resist factored loads or related internal moments and forces in such combinations as stipulated by this standard.

STRUCTURAL HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the base to the highest level of the seismic force-resisting system of the structure. For pitched or sloped roofs, the structural height is from the base to the average height of the roof.

STRUCTURAL OBSERVATIONS: The visual observations to determine that the seismic force-resisting system is constructed in general conformance with the construction documents.

STRUCTURE: That which is built or constructed and limited to buildings and nonbuilding structures as de fi ned herein.

SUBDIAPHRAGM: A portion of a diaphragm used to transfer wall anchorage forces to diaphragm crossties.

SUPPORTS: Those members, assemblies of members, or manufactured elements, including braces, frames, legs, lugs, snubbers, hangers, saddles, or struts, and associated fasteners that transmit loads between nonstructural components and their attachments to the structure.

TESTING AGENCY: A company or corporation that provides testing and/or inspection services.

TRUSSED TOWER: Alattice-type structure, freestanding or guyed, which supports static equipment such as chimneys, stacks, lights, or other lightweight components.

USGS SEISMIC DESIGN GEODATABASE : A US Geological Survey (USGS) database of geocoded values of seismic design parameters SS , S1 , SMS , SM1 , and PGAM and geocoded sets of multi-period 5%-damped risk-targeted maximum considered earthquake (MCER) response spectra.

User Note: The USGS Seismic Design Geodatabase is intended to be accessed through a USGS Seismic Design Web Service that allows the user to specify the site location, by latitude and longitude, and the site class to obtain the seismic design data. The USGS web service spatially interpolates between the gridded data of the USGS geodatabase. Both the USGS geodatabase and the USGS web service can be accessed at https://doi.org/10.5066/F7NK3C76. The USGS Seismic Design Geodatabase is available at the ASCE 7 Hazard Tool https://asce7hazardtool.online/ or an approved equivalent.

VENEERS: Facings or ornamentation of brick, concrete, stone, tile, or similar materials attached to a backing.

WALL: Acomponent that has a slope of 60 degrees or greater with the horizontal plane used to enclose or divide space.

Bearing Wall: Any wall meeting either of the following classi fi cations:

1. Any metal or wood stud wall that supports more than 100 lb per linear ft (1,459 N/m) of vertical load in addition to its own weight.
2. Any concrete or masonry wall that supports more than 200 lb per linear ft (2,919 N/m) of vertical load in addition to its own weight.
3. Light Frame Wall: A wall with wood or steel studs.

Light Frame Wood Shear Wall: A wall constructed with wood studs and sheathed with material rated for shear resistance.

Nonbearing Wall: Any wall that is not a bearing wall.

Nonstructural Wall: Awall other than a bearing wall or shear wall.

Shear Wall (Vertical Diaphragm): A wall, bearing or nonbearing, designed to resist lateral forces acting in the plane of the wall (sometimes referred to as a ' vertical diaphragm ' ).

Structural Wall: A wall that meets the de fi nition for bearing wall or shear wall.

WALL SYSTEM:

BEARING: A structural system with bearing walls providing support for all or major portions of the vertical loads. Shear walls or braced frames provide seismic force resistance.

WOODSTRUCTURALPANEL: Awood-based panel product that meets the requirements of DOC PS1 or DOC PS2 and is bonded with a waterproof adhesive. Included under this designation are plywood, oriented strand board, and composite panels.

## 11.3 SYMBOLS

The unit dimensions used with the items covered by the symbols shall be consistent throughout except where speci fi cally noted. Symbols presented in this section apply only to the seismic provisions of Chapters 11 through 22 in this standard.

- A 0 = Area of the load-carrying foundation, ft 2 (m 2 )
- Ach = Cross-sectional area, in. 2 (mm 2 ), of a structural member measured out-to-out of transverse reinforcement
- Ash = Total cross-sectional area of hoop reinforcement, in. 2 (mm 2 ), including supplementary crossties, having a spacing of s h and crossing a section with a core dimension of hc
- Avd = Required area of leg of diagonal reinforcement, in. 2 (mm 2 )
- Ax = Torsional ampli fi cation factor (Section 12.8.4.3)
- ai = Acceleration at level i obtained from a modal analysis (Section 13.3.1)
- ai = the maximum acceleration at level i obtained from the nonlinear response history analysis at the Design Earthquake ground motion
- bp = Width of the rectangular glass panel
- CAR = Component resonance ductility factor that converts the peak fl oor or ground acceleration into the peak component acceleration as determined in Section 13.3.1.3
- Cd = De fl ection ampli fi cation factor as given in Table 12.2-1, 15.4-1, or 15.4-2
- CdX = De fl ection ampli fi cation factor in the X direction (Section 12.9.2.5)
- CdY = De fl ection ampli fi cation factor in the Y direction (Section 12.9.2.5)
- Cs-diaph = Seismic response coef fi cient for design of diaphragms using the alternative diaphragm design method of Section 12.10.4

- Cd-diaph = De fl ection ampli fi cation factor for diaphragm de fl ection (12.10.4)
- Cp 0 = Diaphragm design acceleration coef fi cient at the structure base (Section 12.10.3.2.1)
- Cpi = Diaphragm design acceleration coef fi cient at 80% of the structural height above the base, hn (Section 12.10.3.2.1)
- Cpn = Diaphragm design acceleration coef fi cient at the structural height, hn (Section 12.10.3.2.1)
- Cpx = Diaphragm design acceleration coef fi cient at level x (Section 12.10.3.2.1)
- Cs = Seismic response coef fi cient determined in Section 12.8.1.1 or 19.3.1 (dimensionless)
- Cs 2 = Higher mode seismic response coef fi cient (Section 12.10.3.2.1)
- Ct = Building period coef fi cient (Section 12.8.2.1)
- Cv = Vertical response spectral coef fi cient as given in Table 11.9-1
- Cvs = Coef fi cient of variation of soil shear modulus, de fi ned as the standard deviation divided by the mean (Section 12.13.3)
- Cvx = Vertical distribution factor as determined in Section 12.8.3
- c = Distance from the neutral axis of a fl exural member to the fi ber of maximum compressive strain, in. (mm)
- D = Effect of dead load
- D clear = Relative horizontal (drift) displacement, measured over the height of the glass panel under consideration, which causes initial glass-to-frame contact. For rectangular glass panels within a rectangular wall frame, D clear is set forth in Section 13.5.9.1
- DpI = Seismic relative displacement (Section 13.3.2)
- Ds = Total depth of stratum in Equation (19.3-4), ft (m)
- dc = Total thickness of cohesive soil layers in the top 100 ft (30 m), ft (m) (Section 20.4.3)
- di = Thickness of any soil or rock layer i [between 0 and 100 ft (0 and 30 m)]; see Section 20.4.1
- dS = Total thickness of cohesionless soil layers in the top 100 ft (30 m), ft (m) (Section 20.4.2)
- E = Effect of horizontal and vertical earthquake-induced forces (Section 12.4)
- Ecl = Capacity-limited horizontal seismic load effect, equal to the maximum force that can develop in the element as determined by a rational, plastic mechanism analysis
- Fi , Fn , Fx = Portion of the seismic base shear, V , induced at level

i

,

n

, or

x

, respectively, as determined in Section 12.8.3

- Fmd = Factor to convert the geometric mean spectral ordinate to a maximum direction spectral ordinate
- Fp = Seismic force acting on a component of a structure as determined in Sections 12.11.1 and 13.3.1
- Fpx = Diaphragm seismic design force at level x
- f 0 c = Speci fi ed compressive strength of concrete used in design
- f 0 s = Ultimate tensile strength of the bolt, stud, or insert leg wires, psi (MPa). For ASTM A307 bolts or ASTM A108 studs, it is permitted to be assumed to be 60,000 psi (415 MPa)
- f y = Speci fi ed yield strength of reinforcement, psi (MPa)
- f yh = Speci fi ed yield strength of the special lateral reinforcement, psi (kPa)
- G 0 = γυ 2 s 0 ∕ g = Average shear modulus for the soils beneath the foundation at small strain levels, lb/ft 2 (Pa)
- G = γυ 2 s ∕ g = Average shear modulus for the soils beneath the foundation at large strain levels, lb/ft 2 (Pa)
- g = Acceleration due to gravity
- H = Thickness of soil
- Hf = Factor for force ampli fi cation as a function of height in the structure as determined in Section 13.3.1.1
- h = Height of a shear wall measured as the maximum clear height from top of foundation to bottom of diaphragm framing above, or the maximum clear height from top of diaphragm to bottom of diaphragm framing above
- h = Average roof height of structure with respect to the base (Chapter 13)
- h  = Effective height of the building, ft (m), as determined in Chapter 19
- hc = Core dimension of a component measured to the outside of the special lateral reinforcement, in. (mm)
- hi , hx = Height above the base to level i or x , respectively
- hn = Structural height as de fi ned in Section 11.2
- hp = Height of the rectangular glass panel
- I e = Importance Factor as prescribed in Section 11.5.1
- hsx = Story height below level x = ð hx -hx -1 Þ
- I p = Component Importance Factor as prescribed in Section 13.3.1
- i = Building level referred to by a subscript i ; i = 1 designates the fi rst level above the base
- Kp = Stiffness of the component or attachment (Section 13.3.3)
- Kxx , Krr = Rotational foundation stiffness in Equations (19.3-9) and (19.3-19), ft-lb/degree (N-m/rad)
- Ky , Kr = Translational foundational stiffness in Equations (19.3-8) and (19.3-18), lb/in. (N/m)
- KL ∕ r = Lateral slenderness ratio of a compression member measured in terms of its effective length, KL , and the least radius of gyration of the member cross section, r
- k = Distribution exponent, given in Section 12.8.3
- ka = Coef fi cient for ampli fi cation factor for diaphragm fl exibility de fi ned in Sections 12.11.2.1 and 12.14.7.5
- L = Overall length of the building at the base in the direction being analyzed, ft (m)
- L diaph = Span in feet of the horizontal diaphragm or diaphragm segment being considered, measured between vertical elements or collectors that provide support to the diaphragm or diaphragm segment (Section 12.10.4)
- Mt = Torsional moment resulting from eccentricity between the locations of the center of mass and the center of rigidity (Section 12.8.4.1)
- Mta = Accidental torsional moment as determined in Section 12.8.4.2
- m = Subscript denoting the mode of vibration under consideration; m = 1 for the fundamental mode
- N = Standard penetration resistance per ASTM D1586
- N = Number of stories above the base (Section 12.8.2.1)
- N = Average fi eld standard penetration resistance for the top 100 ft (30 m) (Sections 20.3.3 and 20.4.2)
- Nch = Average standard penetration resistance for cohesionless soil layers for the top 100 ft (30 m) (Sections 20.3.3 and 20.4.2)
- Ni = Standard penetration resistance of any soil or rock layer i [between 0 and 100 ft (0 and 30 m)]; see Section 20.4.2
- n = Designation for the level that is uppermost in the main portion of the building
- PGA G = Lower-bound limit on deterministic maximum considered earthquake geometric mean peak ground acceleration (Table 21.2-1)

- PGA M = Mapped MCEG peak ground acceleration as de fi ned in Section 11.8.3
- PI = Plasticity index per ASTM D4318
- Px = Total unfactored vertical design load at and above level x , for use in Section 12.8.7
- QE = Effect of horizontal seismic (earthquake-induced) forces
- R = Response modi fi cation coef fi cient as given in Tables 12.2-1, 12.14-1, 15.4-1, and 15.4-2
- R diaph = Response modi fi cation coef fi cient for design of diaphragms using the alternative diaphragm design method of Section 12.10.4
- Rpo = Component strength factor as determined in Section 13.3.1.4
- R μ = Structure ductility reduction factor as determined in Section 13.3.1.2
- Rs = Diaphragm design force reduction factor (Section 12.10.3.5)
- RX = Response modi fi cation coef fi cient in the X direction (Section 12.9.2.5)
- RY = Response modi fi cation coef fi cient in the Y direction (Section 12.9.2.5)
- S 1 = MCER, 5% damped, spectral response acceleration parameter at a period of 1 s for Site Class BC site conditions as determined in accordance with Section 11.4.3
- Sa = 5% damped design spectral response acceleration parameter at any period as de fi ned in Section 11.4.5
- SaM = Site-speci fi c, 5% damped, MCER spectral response acceleration parameter at any period
- Sav = 5% damped, design vertical response spectral acceleration parameter at any period as determined in accordance with Section 11.9.3
- SaMv = 5% damped, MCER vertical response spectral acceleration parameter at any period as determined in accordance with Section 11.9.2
- SD 1 = Design, 5% damped, spectral response acceleration parameter at a period of 1 s as de fi ned in Section 11.4.4
- S Dp S = Design, 5% damped, spectral response acceleration parameter at short periods as de fi ned in Section 11.4.4
- SM 1 = MCER, 5% damped, spectral response acceleration parameter at a period of 1 s adjusted for site class effects as de fi ned in determined in accordance with Section 11.4.3
- SMS = MCER, 5% damped, spectral response acceleration parameter at short periods adjusted for site class effects as determined in accordance with Section 11.4.3
- SS = MCER, 5% damped, spectral response acceleration parameter at a period of 0.2 s for Site Class BC site conditions as determined in accordance with Section 11.4.3
- s h = Spacing of special lateral reinforcement, in. (mm)
- s u = Undrained shear strength (Section 20.4.3)
- s u = Average undrained shear strength in top 100 ft (30 m); see Sections 20.3.3 and 20.4.3, ASTM D2166, or ASTM D2850
- s ui = Undrained shear strength of any cohesive soil layer i [between 0 and 100 ft (0 and 30 m)]; see Section 20.4.3
- T = Fundamental period of the building
- T 0 = 0.2 SD 1 ∕ SDS
- ~ T = Fundamental period as determined in Chapter 19
- Ta = Approximate fundamental period of the building as determined in Section 12.8.2
- T diaph = Period of diaphragm for design of diaphragm using the alternative diaphragm design method of Section 12.10.4
- TL = Long-period transition period(s) shown in Figures 22-14 through 22-17
- T lower = Period of vibration at which 90% of the actual mass has been recovered in each of the two orthogonal directions of response (Section 12.9.2). The mathematical model used to compute T lower shall not include accidental torsion and shall include P-delta effects.
- Tp = Fundamental period of the component and its attachment (Section 13.3.3)

TS = SD 1 ∕ SDS

- T upper = Larger of the two orthogonal fundamental periods of vibration (Section 12.9.2). The mathematical model used to compute T upper shall not include accidental torsion and shall include P-delta effects
- TIR = Torsional Irregularity Ratio de fi ned in Section 12.3.2.1.1
- Tv = Vertical period of vibration
- V = Total design lateral force or shear at the base
- VEX = Maximum absolute value of elastic base shear computed in the X direction among all three analyses performed in that direction (Section 12.9.2.5)
- VEY = Maximum absolute value of elastic base shear computed in the Y direction among all three analyses performed in that direction (Section 12.9.2.5)
- VIX = Inelastic base shear in the X direction (Section 12.9.2.5)
- VIY = Inelastic base shear in the Y direction (Section 12.9.2.5)
- Vt = Design value of the seismic base shear as determined in Section 12.9.1.4.1
- VX = Equivalent lateral force (ELF) base shear in the X direction (Section 12.9.2.5)
- Vx = Seismic design shear in story x as determined in Section 12.8.4
- VY = Equivalent lateral force (ELF) base shear in the Y direction (Section 12.9.2.5)
- ~ V 1 = Portion of the reduced base shear, ~ V 1 , contributed by the fundamental mode, kip (kN) (Section 19.3)
- ~ V = Reduced base shear accounting for the effects of soil structure interaction as determined in Section 19.3.1
- Δ V = Reduction in V as determined in Section 19.3.1, kip (kN)
- Δ V 1 = Reduction in V 1 as determined in Section 19.3.1, kip (kN)
- vs = Shear wave velocity, in ft/s (m/s), at small shear strains (greater than 10 -3 % strain); see Section 19.2.1
- vs = Average shear wave velocity at small shear strains in top 100 ft (30 m) (Sections 20.3.3 and 20.4.1)
- vsi = Shear wave velocity of any soil or rock layer i [between 0 and 100 ft (0 and 30 m)] (Section 20.4.1)
- vso = Average shear wave velocity, ft/s (m/s), for the soils beneath the foundation at small strain levels (Section 19.2.1.1)
- W = Effective seismic weight of the building as de fi ned in Section 12.7.2. For calculation of seismicisolated building period, W is the total effective seismic weight of the building, in kip (kN), as de fi ned in Sections 19.2 and 19.3

- W = Effective seismic weight of the building, in kip (kN), as de fi ned in Sections 19.2 and 19.3
- Wc = Gravity load of a component of the building
- WP = Component operating weight, lb (N)
- wpx = Weight tributary to the diaphragm at level x
- w = Moisture content, in percent, per ASTM D2216
- wi ; wn ; wx = Portion of W that is located at or assigned to level i , n , or x , respectively
- x = Level under consideration; x = 1 designates the fi rst level above the base
- z = Height in structure of point of attachment of component with respect to the base (Section 13.3.1)
- z s = Mode shape factor (Section 12.10.3.2.1)
- β = Fraction of critical damping for the coupled structure -foundation system, determined in Section 19.2.1
- β = Ratio of shear demand to shear capacity for the story between levels x and x -1
- β 0 = Foundation damping factor as speci fi ed in Section 19.2.1.2
- Γ m 1 ; Γ m 2 = First and higher modal contribution factors, respectively (Section 12.10.3.2.1)
- Δ = Design story drift as determined in Section 12.8.6 Δ avg = Average of the story drifts at the two opposing edges of the building, as de fi ned in Section 12.3.2.1.1
- γ = Average unit weight of soil, lb/ft 3 (N/m 3 )
- Δ max = Maximum story drift at the building ' s edge subjected to lateral forces, as de fi ned in Section 12.3.2.1.1
- Δ a = Allowable story drift as speci fi ed in Section 12.12.1
- Δ fallout = Relative seismic displacement (drift) at which glass fallout from the curtain wall, storefront, or partition occurs
- Δ ADVE = Average drift of adjoining vertical elements of the seismic force-resisting system over the story below the diaphragm under consideration, under tributary lateral load equivalent to that used in the computation of δ MDD in Figure 12.3-1, in. (mm)
- δ di = Displacement due to diaphragm deformation corresponding to the design earthquake including Section 12.10 diaphragm forces (Section 12.8.6)
- δ DE = Design earthquake displacement as determined in Section 12.8.6
- δ e = Elastic displacement computed under design earthquake forces (Section 12.8.6)
- δ MCE = Maximum Considered Earthquake Displacement as determined in Section 12.8.6
- δ MDD = Computed maximum in-plane de fl ection of the diaphragm under lateral load, in. (mm) (Figure 12.3-1)
- δ max = Maximum displacement at level x considering torsion (Section 12.8.4.3)
- δ M = Maximum inelastic response displacement considering torsion (Section 12.12.3)
- δ MT = Total separation distance between adjacent structures on the same property (Section 12.12.3)
- δ avg = Average of the displacements at the extreme points of the structure at level x (Section 12.8.4.3)
- δ xm = Modal de fl ection of level x at the center of the mass at and above level x as determined by Section 19.3.2
- δ x ; δ x 1 = De fl ection of level x at the center of the mass at and above level x in Equations (19.2-13) and (19.3-3), in. (mm)
- θ = Stability coef fi cient for P-delta effects as determined in Section 12.8.7
- η x = Force scale factor in the X direction (Section 12.9.2.5)
- η y = Force scale factor in the Y direction (Section 12.9.2.5)
- λ = Time effect factor
- ρ = Redundancy factor based on the extent of structural redundancy present in a building, as de fi ned in Section 12.3.4
- Ω 0 = Overstrength factor as de fi ned in Tables 12.2-1, 15.4.-1, and 15.4-2
- = Diaphragm overstrength factor (Section 12.10.4)
- 0p = The anchorage overstrength factor given in Tables
- Ω 0-diaph Ω 13.5-1 and 13.6-1

## 11.4 SEISMIC GROUND MOTION VALUES

11.4.1 Near-Fault Sites Sites satisfying either of the following conditions shall be classi fi ed as near fault:

- 9.5 mi (15 km) or less from the surface projection of a known active fault capable of producing M w 7 or larger events, or
- 6.25 mi (10 km) or less from the surface projection of a known active fault capable of producing events Mw6 or larger, but smaller than Mw7.

## EXCEPTIONS:

1. Faults with estimated slip rate less than 0.04 in. (1 mm) per year shall not be used to determine whether a site is a nearfault site.
2. The surface projection used in the determination of nearfault site classi fi cation shall not include portions of the fault at depths of 6.25 mi (10 km) or greater.

11.4.2 Site Class The site shall be classi fi ed as Site Class A, B, BC, C, CD, D, DE, E, or F in accordance with Chapter 20.

11.4.2.1 Default Site Conditions Where the soil properties are not known in suf fi cient detail to determine the site class, risktargeted maximum considered earthquake (MCER) spectral response accelerations shall be based on the most critical spectral response acceleration at each period of Site Class C, Site Class CD, and Site Class D, unless the Authority Having Jurisdiction determines, based on geotechnical data, that Site Class DE, E, or F soils are present at the site.

11.4.3 Risk-Targeted Maximum Considered Earthquake ( MCER ) Spectral Response Acceleration Parameters Risktargeted maximum considered earthquake (MCER) spectral response acceleration parameters SS , S 1 , SMS , and SM 1 shall be obtained from the USGS Seismic Design Geodatabase for the applicable site class.

EXCEPTION: Where a site-speci fi c ground motion analysis is performed in accordance with Section 11.4.7, risk-targeted maximum considered earthquake (MCER) spectral response acceleration parameters SMS and SM 1 shall be determined in accordance with Section 21.4 and risk-targeted maximum considered earthquake (MCER) spectral response acceleration parameters SS and S 1 shall be either (1) determined from the site-speci fi c MCER response spectrum calculated in accordance with the requirements of Section 21.2.3 assuming Site Class BC site condition or (2) obtained from the USGS Seismic Design Geodatabase.

11.4.4 Design Spectral Acceleration Parameters Design earthquake spectral response acceleration parameters at short periods, SDS , and at 1-s periods, SD 1 , shall be determined from Equations (11.4-1) and (11.4-2), respectively. Where the simpli fi ed alternative design procedure of Section 12.14 is used, the value of SDS shall be determined in accordance with Section 12.14.8.1, and the value for SD 1 need not be determined.

where

SMS = MCER, 5%-damped, spectral response acceleration parameter at short periods adjusted for site effects as determined in accordance with Section 11.4.3, and

SM 1 = MCER, 5%-damped, spectral response acceleration parameter at a period of 1 s adjusted for site effects as determined in accordance with Section 11.4.3.

11.4.5 Design Response Spectrum Where a design response spectrum is required by this standard, the design response spectrum shall be determined in accordance with the requirements of Section 11.4.5.1.

## EXCEPTIONS:

1. Where a site-speci fi c ground motion analysis is performed in accordance with Section 11.4.7, the design response spectrum shall be determined in accordance with Section 21.3.
2. Where values of the multi-period 5%-damped MCER response spectrum are not available from the USGS Seismic Design Geodatabase, the design response spectrum shall be permitted to be determined in accordance with Section 11.4.5.2.

11.4.5.1 Multi-Period Design Response Spectrum The multiperiod design response spectrum shall be developed as follows:

1. At discrete values of period, T , equal to 0.0 s, 0.01 s, 0.02 s, 0.03 s, 0.05 s, 0.075 s, 0.1 s, 0.15 s, 0.2 s, 0.25 s, 0.3 s, 0.4 s, 0.5 s, 0.75 s, 1.0 s, 1.5 s, 2.0 s, 3.0 s, 4.0 s, 5.0 s, 7.5 s, and 10 s, the 5%-damped design spectral response acceleration parameter, Sa , shall be taken as 2/3 of the multi-period 5%-damped MCER response spectrum from the USGS Seismic Design Geodatabase for the applicable site class.
2. At each response period, T , less than 10 s and not equal to one of the discrete values of period, T , listed in Item 1 above, Sa , shall be determined by linear interpolation between values of Sa , of Item 1 above.
3. At each response period, T , greater than 10 s, Sa , shall be taken as the value of Sa at the period of 10 s of Item 1 above, factored by 10/ T , where the value of T is less than or equal to that of the long-period transition period, TL , and shall be taken as the value of Sa at the period of 10 s factored by 10 TL / T 2 , where the value of T is greater than that of the long-period transition period, TL .

11.4.5.2 Two-Period Design Response Spectrum The twoperiod design response spectrum shall be developed as indicated in Figure 11.4-1 and as follows:

1. For periods less than T 0 , the design spectral response acceleration parameter, Sa , shall be taken as given in Equation (11.4-3):

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- image -->

Period,

T

(sec)

Figure 11.4-1. Two-period design response spectrum.

2. For periods greater than or equal to T 0 and less than or equal to TS , the design spectral response acceleration parameter, Sa , shall be taken as equal to SDS .
3. For periods greater than TS and less than or equal to TL , the design spectral response acceleration parameter, Sa , shall be taken as given in Equation (11.4-4):

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

4. For periods greater than TL , Sa shall be taken as given in Equation (11.4-5):

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where

SDS = Design spectral response acceleration parameter at short periods;

SD 1 = Design spectral response acceleration parameter at a 1 s period;

T = Fundamental period of the structure, S ;

= ∕ ; and

T 0 = 0.2( SD 1 ∕ SDS );

TS SD 1 SDS

TL = Long-period transition period(s) shown in Figures 22-14 through 22-17.

11.4.6 Risk-Targeted Maximum Considered Earthquake ( MCER ) Response Spectrum Where an MCER response spectrum is required, it shall be determined by multiplying the design response spectrum by 1.5.

- 11.4.7 Site-Speci fi c Ground Motion Procedures A site response analysis shall be performed in accordance with Section 21.1 for structures on Site Class F sites, unless exempted in accordance with Section 20.3.1.

It shall be permitted to perform a site response analysis in accordance with Section 21.1 and/or a ground motion hazard analysis in accordance with Section 21.2 to determine ground motions for any structure.

When the procedures of either Section 21.1 or 21.2 are used, the design response spectrum shall be determined in accordance with Section 21.3, the design acceleration parameters shall be

determined in accordance with Section 21.4, and, if required, the MCEG peak ground acceleration parameter PGAM shall be determined in accordance with Section 21.5.

## 11.5 IMPORTANCE FACTOR AND RISK CATEGORY

11.5.1 Importance Factor An Importance Factor, I e , shall be assigned to each structure in accordance with Table 1.5-2.

11.5.2 Protected Access for Risk Category IV Where operational access to a Risk Category IV structure is required through an adjacent structure, the adjacent structure shall conform to the requirements for Risk Category IV structures. Where operational access is less than 10 ft (3.048 m) from an interior lot line or another structure on the same lot, protection from potential falling debris from adjacent structures shall be provided by the owner of the Risk Category IV structure.

## 11.6 SEISMIC DESIGN CATEGORY

Structures shall be assigned a seismic design category in accordance with this section.

Risk Category I, II, or III structures located where the mapped spectral response acceleration parameter at 1-s period, S 1 , is greater than or equal to 0.75 shall be assigned to Seismic Design Category E. Risk Category IV structures located where the mapped spectral response acceleration parameter at 1-s period, S 1 , is greater than or equal to 0.75 shall be assigned to Seismic Design Category F. All other structures shall be assigned to a seismic design category based on their risk category and the design spectral response acceleration parameters, SDS and SD 1 , determined in accordance with Section 11.4.4. Each building and structure shall be assigned to the more severe seismic design category in accordance with Table 11.6-1 or 11.6-2, irrespective of the fundamental period of vibration of the structure, T . The provisions in Chapter 19 shall not be used to modify the spectral response acceleration parameters for determining seismic design category.

Where S 1 is less than 0.75, the seismic design category is permitted to be determined from Table 11.6-1 alone where all of the following apply:

1. In each of the two orthogonal directions, the approximate fundamental period of the structure, Ta , determined in accordance with Section 12.8.2.1 is less than 0.8 Ts , where Ts is determined in accordance with Section 11.4.5.
2. In each of two orthogonal directions, the fundamental period of the structure used to calculate the story drift is less than Ts .
3. Equation (12.8-2) is used to determine the seismic response coef fi cient, Cs .
4. The diaphragms are rigid in accordance with Section 12.3; or, for diaphragms that are not rigid, the horizontal distance between vertical elements of the seismic force-resisting system does not exceed 40 ft (12.192 m).

Table 11.6-1. Seismic Design Category Based on Short-Period Response Acceleration Parameter.

|                     | Risk Category   | Risk Category   |
|---------------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Value of S DS       | I or II or III  | IV              |
| S DS < 0.167        | A               | A               |
| 0.167 ≤ S DS < 0.33 | B               | C               |
| 0.33 ≤ S DS < 0.50  | C               | D               |
| 0.50 ≤ S DS         | D               | D               |

Table 11.6-2. Seismic Design Category Based on 1 s Period Response Acceleration Parameter.

|                       | Risk Category   | Risk Category   |
|-----------------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Value of S D 1        | I or II or III  | IV              |
| S D 1 < 0.067         | A               | A               |
| 0.067 ≤ S D 1 < 0.133 | B               | C               |
| 0.133 ≤ S D 1 < 0.20  | C               | D               |
| 0.20 ≤ S D 1 :        | D               |                 |

Where the alternate simpli fi ed design procedure of Section 12.14 is used, the seismic design category is permitted to be determined from Table 11.6-1 alone, using the value of SDS determined in Section 12.14.8.1, except that where S 1 is greater than or equal to 0.75, the seismic design category shall be E.

## 11.7 DESIGN REQUIREMENTS FOR SEISMIC DESIGN CATEGORY A

Buildings and other structures assigned to Seismic Design Category A need only comply with the requirements of Section 1.4. Nonstructural components in SDC A are exempt from seismic design requirements. In addition, tanks assigned to Risk Category IV shall satisfy the freeboard requirement in Section 15.6.5.1.

## 11.8 GEOLOGIC HAZARDS AND GEOTECHNICAL INVESTIGATION

11.8.1 Site Limitation for Seismic Design Categories E and F A structure assigned to Seismic Design Category E or F shall not be located where a known potential exists for an active fault to cause rupture of the ground surface at the structure.

11.8.2 Geotechnical Investigation Report Requirements for Seismic Design Categories C through F A geotechnical investigation report shall be provided for a structure assigned to Seismic Design Category C, D, E, or F in accordance with this section. An investigation shall be conducted, and a report shall be submitted that includes an evaluation of the following potential geologic and seismic hazards:

- (a) Slope instability,
- (b) Liquefaction,
- (c) Total and differential settlement, and
- (d) Surface displacement caused by faulting or seismically induced lateral spreading or lateral fl ow.

The report shall contain recommendations for foundation designs or other measures to mitigate the effects of the previously mentioned hazards.

EXCEPTION: Where approved by the Authority Having Jurisdiction, a site-speci fi c geotechnical report is not required where prior evaluations of nearby sites with similar soil conditions provide direction relative to the proposed construction.

11.8.3 Additional Geotechnical Investigation Report Requirements for Seismic Design Categories D through F The geotechnical investigation report for a structure assigned to Seismic Design Category D, E, or F shall include all of the following, as applicable:

1. The determination of dynamic seismic lateral earth pressures on basement and retaining walls caused by design earthquake ground motions.
2. The potential for liquefaction, seismically-induced permanent ground displacement, and soil strength loss evaluated for site peak ground acceleration, earthquake magnitude, and source characteristics consistent with the MCEG peak ground acceleration. Peak ground acceleration shall be determined based on either (1) a site-speci fi c study taking into account soil ampli fi cation effects as speci fi ed in Section 11.4.7 or (2) the value of the MCE G peak ground acceleration parameter PGAM from the USGS Seismic Design Geodatabase for the applicable site class.
3. Assessment of potential consequences of liquefaction, seismically-induced permanent ground displacement, and soil strength loss, including, but not limited to, estimation of total and differential settlement, lateral soil movement, lateral soil loads on foundations, reduction in foundation soil-bearing capacity and lateral soil reaction, soil downdrag and reduction in axial and lateral soil reaction for pile foundations, increases in soil lateral pressures on retaining walls, and fl otation of buried structures.
4. Discussion of mitigation measures such as, but not limited to, selection of appropriate foundation type and depths, selection of appropriate structural systems to accommodate anticipated displacements and forces, ground stabilization, or any combination of these measures and how they shall be considered in the design of the structure.

## 11.9 VERTICAL GROUND MOTIONS FOR SEISMIC DESIGN

11.9.1 General If the option to incorporate the effects of vertical seismic ground motions is exercised in lieu of the requirements of Section 12.4.2.2, the requirements of this section are permitted to be used in the determination of the vertical design earthquake ground motions. The requirements of Section 11.9.2 shall only apply to structures in Seismic Design Categories C, D, E, and F located in the conterminous United States at or west of -105 degrees longitude, Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, US Virgin Islands, Guam and Northern Mariana Islands, and American Samoa. For structures in Seismic Design Categories C, D, E, and F located in the conterminous United States east of -105 degrees longitude, the value of SaMv shall be taken as two-thirds of the value of SaM . The requirements of Section 11.9.3 shall apply to all structures in the Seismic Design Categories C, D, E, and F.

11.9.2 MCER Vertical Response Spectrum Where a vertical response spectrum is required by this standard and site-speci fi c procedures are not used, the MCER vertical response spectral acceleration, SaMv , shall be developed as follows:

1. For vertical periods ( Tv ) less than or equal to 0.025 s, SaMv shall be determined in accordance with Equation (11.9-1) as follows:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

2. For vertical periods greater than 0.025 s and less than or equal to 0.05 s, SaMv shall be determined in accordance with Equation (11.9-2) as follows:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

3. For vertical periods greater than 0.05 s and less than or equal to 0.1 s, SaMv shall be determined in accordance with Equation (11.9-3) as follows:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

4. For vertical periods greater than 0.1 s and less than or equal to 2.0 s, SaMv shall be determined in accordance with Equation (11.9-4) as follows:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

The value of SaMv shall not be less than 0.5 ð SaM ∕ Fmd Þ .

5. For vertical periods greater than 2.0 s, SaMv shall be determined in accordance with Equation (11.9-5) as follows:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where

Cv = Is de fi ned in terms of SS in Table 11.9-1;

SaM = MCER spectral response acceleration parameter at the same period as SaMv ;

Fmd = Factor to convert the geometric mean spectral ordinate to a maximum direction spectral ordinate; and

Tv = Vertical period of vibration.

The maximum-component factor, Fmd , shall be taken as follows:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

In lieu of using the above procedure, a site-speci fi c study is permitted to be performed to obtain SaMv , but the value so

Table 11.9-1. Values of Vertical Coefficient, Cv .

| MCE R Spectral Response Parameter at Short Periods*   |   Site Classes A, B |   Site Class BC |   Site Class C |   Site Class CD |   Site Classes D, DE, E, F |
|-------------------------------------------------------|---------------------|-----------------|----------------|-----------------|----------------------------|
| S MS ≥ 2.0                                            |                 0.9 |            1.1  |            1.3 |            1.4  |                        1.5 |
| S MS = 12.0                                           |                 0.9 |            1    |            1.1 |            1.2  |                        1.3 |
| S MS = 0.6                                            |                 0.9 |            0.95 |            1   |            1.05 |                        1.1 |
| S MS = 0.3                                            |                 0.8 |            0.8  |            0.8 |            0.85 |                        0.9 |
| S MS ≤ 0.2                                            |                 0.7 |            0.7  |            0.7 |            0.7  |                        0.7 |

determined shall not be less than 80% of the SaMv value determined from Equations (11.9-1) through (11.9-5).

11.9.3 Design Vertical Response Spectrum The design vertical response spectral acceleration, Sav , shall be taken as two-thirds of the value of SaMv determined in Sections 11.9.1 or 11.9.2.

## 11.10 CONSENSUS STANDARDS AND OTHER REFERENCED DOCUMENTS

See Chapter 23 for the list of consensus standards and other documents that shall be considered part of this standard to the extent referenced in this chapter.