## CHAPTER 14 MATERIAL-SPECIFIC SEISMIC DESIGN AND DETAILING REQUIREMENTS

## 14.0 SCOPE

Structural elements, including foundation elements, shall conform to the material design and detailing requirements set forth in this chapter or as otherwise speci fi ed for nonbuilding structures in Tables 15.4-1 and 15.4-2.

## 14.1 STEEL

Structures, including foundations, constructed of steel to resist seismic loads shall be designed and detailed in accordance with this standard including the reference documents and additional requirements provided in this section.

14.1.1 Reference Documents The design, construction, and quality of steel members that resist seismic forces shall conform to the applicable requirements, as amended herein, of ANSI/AISC 341, ANSI/AISC 360, ANSI/AISI S100, ANSI/ AISI S230, ANSI/AISI S240, ANSI/AISI S310, ANSI/AISI S400, ANSI/SDI-QA/QC, ANSI/SDI-SD, ANSI/SJI-100, ANSI/SJI-200, ASCE 8, and ASCE 19.

## 14.1.2 Structural Steel

14.1.2.1 General The design of structural steel for buildings and structures shall be in accordance with ANSI/AISC 360. Where required, the seismic design of structural steel structures shall be in accordance with the additional provisions of Section 14.1.2.2.

14.1.2.2 Seismic Requirements for Structural Steel Structures The design of structural steel structures to resist seismic forces shall be in accordance with the provisions of Section 14.1.2.2.1 or 14.1.2.2.2, as applicable.

14.1.2.2.1 Seismic Design Categories B and C. Structural steel structures assigned to Seismic Design Category B or C shall be of any construction permitted by the applicable reference documents in Section 14.1.1. Where a response modi fi cation coef fi cient, R , is used in accordance with Table 12.2-1 for the design of structural steel structures assigned to Seismic Design Category B or C, the structures shall be designed and detailed in accordance with the requirements of AISC 341.

EXCEPTION: The response modi fi cation coef fi cient, R , designated for ' steel systems not speci fi cally detailed for seismic resistance, excluding cantilever column systems ' in Table 12.2-1 shall be permitted for systems designed and detailed in accordance with AISC 360 and need not be designed and detailed in accordance with AISC 341.

14.1.2.2.2 Seismic Design Categories D through F. Structural steel structures assigned to Seismic Design Category D, E, or F shall be designed and detailed in accordance with AISC 341, except as permitted in Table 15.4-1.

## 14.1.3 Cold-Formed Steel

14.1.3.1 General The design of cold-formed carbon or lowalloy steel structural members shall be in accordance with the requirements of AISI S100, and the design of cold-formed stainless steel structural members shall be in accordance with the requirements of ASCE 8. Where required, the seismic design of cold-formed steel structures shall be in accordance with the additional provisions of Section 14.1.3.2.

14.1.3.2 Seismic Requirements for Cold-Formed Steel Structures Where a response modi fi cation coef fi cient, R , in accordance with Table 12.2-1, is used for the design of coldformed steel structures, the structures shall be designed and detailed in accordance with the requirements of AISI S100, ASCE 8, and AISI S400, as applicable.

## 14.1.4 Cold-Formed Steel Light-Frame Construction

14.1.4.1 General Cold-formed steel light-frame construction shall be designed in accordance with AISI S240. Where required, the seismic design of cold-formed steel light-frame construction shall be in accordance with the additional provisions of Section 14.1.4.2.

14.1.4.2 Seismic Requirements for Cold-Formed Steel LightFrame Construction The design of cold-formed steel light-frame construction to resist seismic forces shall be in accordance with the provisions of Section 14.1.4.2.1 or 14.1.4.2.2, as applicable.

14.1.4.2.1 Seismic Design Categories B and C. Where a response modi fi cation coef fi cient, R , in accordance with Table 12.2-1 is used for the design of cold-formed steel light-frame construction assigned to Seismic Design Category B or C, the structures shall be designed and detailed in accordance with the requirements of AISI S400.

EXCEPTION: The response modi fi cation coef fi cient, R , designated for ' steel systems not speci fi cally detailed for seismic resistance, excluding cantilever column systems ' in Table 12.2-1 shall be permitted for systems designed and detailed in accordance with AISI S240 and need not be designed and detailed in accordance with AISI S400.

14.1.4.2.2 Seismic Design Categories D through F. Coldformed steel light-frame construction structures assigned to Seismic Design Category D, E, or F shall be designed and detailed in accordance with AISI S400.

14.1.4.3 Prescriptive Cold-Formed Steel Light-Frame Construction Cold-formed steel light-frame construction for oneand two-family dwellings is permitted to be designed and constructed in accordance with the requirements of AISI S230 subject to the limitations therein.

14.1.5 Cold-Formed Steel Deck Diaphragms Cold-formed steel deck diaphragms shall be designed in accordance with the requirements of AISI S100, AISI S240, SDI-SD, or ASCE 8, as applicable. Nominal strengths shall be determined in accordance with AISI S310. The required strength of diaphragms, including bracing members that form part of the diaphragm, shall be determined in accordance with Section 12.10. Where required by this standard, special seismic detailing requirements shall be in accordance with AISI S400. Special inspections and quali fi cation of welding special inspectors for cold-formed steel fl oor and roof deck shall be in accordance with the quality assurance inspection requirements of SDI-QA/QC.

14.1.6 Concrete-Filled Steel Deck Diaphragms Concretefi lled steel deck diaphragms shall be of any construction permitted by the applicable reference documents in Section 14.1.1. Where a Diaphragm Design Force Reduction Factor, Rs , in accordance with Table 12.10-1, is used for design, the concrete- fi lled steel deck diaphragm and shear transfer to structural steel members shall be designed and detailed in accordance with the requirements of AISC 341.

14.1.7 Open Web Steel Joists and Joist Girders The design, manufacture, and use of open web steel joists and joist girders shall be in accordance with SJI-100 and SJI-200, as applicable.

14.1.8 Steel Cables The design strength of steel cables serving as main structural load carrying members shall be determined by the requirements of ASCE 19.

14.1.9 Additional Detailing Requirements for Steel Piles in Seismic Design Categories D through F In addition to the foundation requirements set forth in Sections 12.1.5 and 12.13, design and detailing of H-piles shall conform to the requirements of AISC 341, and the connection between the pile cap and steel piles or un fi lled steel pipe piles in structures assigned to Seismic Design Category D, E, or F shall be designed for a tensile force not less than 10% of the pile compression capacity.

EXCEPTION: Connection tensile capacity need not exceed the strength required to resist the seismic load effects including overstrength of Section 12.4.3 or 12.14.3.2. Connections need not be provided where the foundation or supported structure does not rely on the tensile capacity of the piles for stability under the design seismic forces.

## 14.2 CONCRETE

Structures, including foundations, constructed of concrete to resist seismic loads shall be designed and detailed in accordance with this standard, including the reference documents and additional requirements provided in this section.

14.2.1 Reference Documents The quality and testing of concrete materials and the design and construction of structural concrete members that resist seismic forces shall conform to the requirements of ACI 318, except as modi fi ed in Section 14.2.2.

14.2.2 Modi fi cations to ACI 318 The text of ACI 318 shall be modi fi ed as indicated in Sections 14.2.2.1 through 14.2.2.7. Italics are used for text within Sections 14.2.2.1 through 14.2.2.7 to indicate requirements that differ from ACI 318.

14.2.2.1 De fi nitions Add the following de fi nitions to ACI 318, Section 2.3.

Cast-In-Place Concrete Equivalent Precast Diaphragm: A cast-in-place noncomposite topping slab diaphragm, as de fi ned in ACI 318, Section 18.12.5, or a diaphragm constructed with precast concrete components that uses closure strips between precast components with detailing that meets the requirements of ACI 318 for the seismic design category of the structure.

Detailed Plain Concrete Structural Wall: A wall complying with the requirements of ACI 318, Chapter 14.

Ordinary Precast Structural Wall: A precast wall complying with the requirements of ACI 318 excluding Chapters 14, 18, and 27.

Precast Concrete Diaphragm: Adiaphragm constructed with precast concrete components, with or without a cast-in-place topping, that includes the use of discrete connectors or joint reinforcement to transmit diaphragm forces.

14.2.2.2 ACI 318, Section 10.7.6 Modify Section 10.7.6 by revising Section 10.7.6.1.5 to read as follows:

10.7.6.1.5 In structures assigned to Seismic Design Categories C, D, E, or F, the ties or hoops shall have a hook on each free end that complies with Section 25.3.4.

14.2.2.3 Scope Modify ACI 318, Section 18.2.1.2, to read as follows:

18.2.1.2 All members shall satisfy requirements of Chapters 1 to 17 and 19 to 26. Structures assigned to SDC B, C, D, E, or F also shall satisfy Sections 18.2.1.3 through 18.2.1.7, as applicable, except as modified by the requirements of Chapters 14 and 15 of ASCE 7. Where ACI 318, Chapter 18, conflicts with other ACI 318 chapters, Chapter 18 shall govern.

14.2.2.4 Intermediate Precast Structural Walls Modify ACI 318, Section 18.5, by renumbering Sections 18.5.2.2 and 18.5.2.3 to Sections 18.5.2.3 and 18.5.2.4, respectively, and adding a new Section 18.5.2.2 to read as follows:

18.5.2.2 Connections that are designed to yield shall be capable of maintaining 80% of their design strength at the deformation induced by design displacement or shall use type 2 mechanical splices.

18.5.2.3 For elements of the connection that are not designed to yield, the required strength shall be based on 1.5Sy of the yielding portion of the connection.

18.5.2.4 In structures assigned to SDC D, E, or F, wall piers shall be designed in accordance with 18.10.8 or 18.14.

14.2.2.5 Special Precast Structural Walls Modify ACI 318, Section 18.11.2.1, to read as follows:

18.11.2.1 Special structural walls constructed using precast concrete shall satisfy 18.10 in addition to 18.5.2 as modified by Section 14.2.2 of ASCE 7, except 18.10.2.4 shall not apply for precast walls where deformation demands are concentrated at the panel joints.

14.2.2.6 Foundations Modify ACI 318, Section 18.13.1.1, to read as follows:

18.13.1.1 Section 18.13, as modified by Sections 12.1.5 or 12.13 of ASCE 7, shall apply to foundations resisting earthquake-induced forces or transferring earthquake-induced forces between structure and ground.

14.2.2.7 Detailed Plain Concrete Shear Walls Modify ACI 318, Section 14.6, by adding a new Section 14.6.2 to read:

## 14.6.2 Detailed Plain Concrete Shear Walls

14.6.2.1 Detailed plain concrete shear walls are walls conforming to the requirements for ordinary plain concrete shear walls and Section 14.6.2.2.

14.6.2.2 Reinforcement shall be provided as follows:

- (a) Vertical reinforcement of at least 0.20 in 2 (129 mm 2 ) in cross-sectional area shall be provided continuously from support to support at each corner, at each side of each opening, and at the ends of walls. The continuous vertical bar required beside an opening is permitted to substitute for the No. 5 bar required by Section 11.7.5.1.
- (b) Horizontal reinforcement of at least 0.20 in 2 (129 mm 2 ) in cross-sectional area shall be provided :
1. Continuously at structurally connected roof and floor levels and at the top of walls;
2. At the bottom of load-bearing walls or in the top of foundations where doweled to the wall; and
3. At a maximum spacing of 120 in. (3,048 mm).

Reinforcement at the top and bottom of openings, where used in determining the maximum spacing specified in Item 3 in the preceding text, shall be continuous in the wall.

## 14.3 COMPOSITE STEEL AND CONCRETE STRUCTURES

Structures, including foundations, constructed of composite steel and concrete to resist seismic loads shall be designed and detailed in accordance with this standard, including the reference documents and additional requirements provided in this section.

14.3.1 Reference Documents The design, construction, and quality of composite steel and concrete members that resist seismic forces shall conform to the applicable requirements of AISC 341, AISC 360, and ACI 318, excluding Chapter 14.

14.3.2 General Systems of structural steel acting compositely with reinforced concrete shall be designed in accordance with AISC 360 and ACI 318, excluding Chapter 14. Where required, the seismic design of composite steel and concrete systems shall be in accordance with the additional provisions of Section 14.3.3.

14.3.3 Seismic Requirements for Composite Steel and Concrete Structures Where a response modi fi cation coef fi cient, R , in accordance with Table 12.2-1 is used for the design of systems of structural steel acting compositely with reinforced concrete, the structures shall be designed and detailed in accordance with the requirements of AISC 341.

14.3.4 Metal-Cased Concrete Piles Metal-cased concrete piles shall be designed and detailed in accordance with ACI 318.

## 14.4 MASONRY

Structures, including foundations, constructed of masonry to resist seismic loads shall be designed and detailed in accordance with this standard, including the references and additional requirements provided in this section.

14.4.1 Reference Documents The design, construction, and quality assurance of masonry members that resist seismic forces shall conform to the requirements of TMS 402 and TMS 602, except as modi fi ed by Section 14.4.

14.4.2 R Factors To qualify for the response modi fi cation coef fi cients, R , set forth in this standard, the requirements of TMS 402 and TMS 602, as amended in subsequent sections, shall be satis fi ed.

Special reinforced masonry shear walls designed in accordance with Section 8.3 or 9.3 of TMS 402 shall also comply with the additional requirements in Section 14.4.4 or 14.4.5.

## 14.4.3 Modi fi cations to Chapter 7 of TMS 402

14.4.3.1 Separation Joints Add the following new Section 7.5.1 to TMS 402:

7.5.1 Separation Joints Where concrete abuts structural masonry and the joint between the materials is not designed as a separation joint, the concrete shall be roughened so that the average height of aggregate exposure is 0.125 in. (3 mm) and shall be bonded to the masonry in accordance with these requirements as if it were masonry. Vertical joints not intended to act as separation joints shall be crossed by horizontal reinforcement as required by Section 5.1.1.2.

## 14.4.4 Modi fi cations to Chapter 6 of TMS 402

## 14.4.4.1 Reinforcement Requirements and Details

14.4.4.1.1 Reinforcing Bar Size Limitations. Modify TMS 402, Section 6.1.2, as follows.

Delete TMS 402, Section 6.1.2.1 and replace with:

6.1.2.1 Reinforcing bars used in masonry shall not be larger than No. 9 (M#29).

Delete TMS 402, Section 6.1.2.2 and replace with:

6.1.2.2 The nominal bar diameter shall not exceed one-quarter of the least clear dimension of the cell, course, or collar joint in which it is placed.

Add the following sentence to the end of TMS 402, Section 6.1.2.4:

The area of reinforcing bars placed in a cell or in a course of hollow unit construction shall not exceed 4% of the cell area.

14.4.4.1.2 Splices in Reinforcement. Add the following new Sections 6.1.6.1.1.4 and 6.1.6.1.2.1 to TMS 402:

6.1.6.1.1.4 Where M/Vudv exceeds 1.5 and the seismic load associated with the development of the nominal shear capacity exceeds 80% of the seismic load associated with development of the nominal flexural capacity, lap splices shall not be used in plastic hinge zones of special reinforced masonry shear walls. The length of the plastic hinge zone shall be taken as at least 0.15 times the distance between the point of zero moment and the point of maximum moment.

6.1.6.1.2.1 Where M/Vudv exceeds 1.5 and the seismic load associated with the development of the nominal shear capacity exceeds 80% of the seismic load associated with development of the nominal flexural capacity, welded splices shall not be permitted in plastic hinge zones of special reinforced walls of masonry.

## 14.4.5 Modi fi cations to Chapter 9 of TMS 402

14.4.5.1 Anchoring to Masonry Add the following as the fi rst paragraph in TMS 402, Section 9.1.6:

9.1.6 Anchor Bolts Embedded in Grout Anchorage assemblies connecting masonry elements that are part of the seismic force-resisting system to diaphragms and chords shall be designed so that the strength of the anchor is governed by steel tensile or shear yielding. Alternatively, the anchorage assembly is permitted to be designed so that it is governed by masonry breakout or anchor pullout, provided the anchorage assembly is designed to resist not less than 2.0 times the factored forces transmitted by the assembly.

14.4.5.2 Coupling Beams Add the following new Section 9.3.4.2.5 to TMS 402:

9.3.4.2.5 Coupling Beams. Structural members that provide coupling between shear walls shall be designed to reach their moment or shear nominal strength before either shear wall

reaches its moment or shear nominal strength. Analysis of coupled shear walls shall comply with accepted principles of mechanics.

The design shear strength , ϕ Vn, of the coupling beams shall satisfy the following criterion :

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where

M 1 , M 2 = Nominal moment strength at the ends of the beam, Lc = Length of the beam between the shear walls, and Vg = Unfactored shear force caused by gravity loads.

The calculation of the nominal flexural moment shall include the reinforcement in reinforced concrete roof and floor systems. The width of the reinforced concrete used for calculations of reinforcement shall be six times the floor or roof slab thickness.

## 14.4.6 Modi fi cations to Chapter 12 of TMS 402

14.4.6.1 Corrugated Sheet Metal Anchors Add Section 12.2.2.11.1.1 to TMS 402 as follows:

12.2.2.11.1.1 Corrugated sheet metal anchors shall not be used.

## 14.5 WOOD

Structures, including foundations, constructed of wood to resist seismic loads shall be designed and detailed in accordance with this standard including the references and additional requirements provided in this section.

14.5.1 Reference Documents The quality, testing, design, and construction of members and their fastenings in wood systems that resist seismic forces shall conform to the requirements of the applicable following reference documents: AWC NDS and AWC SDPWS.

## 14.6 CONSENSUS STANDARDS AND OTHER REFERENCED DOCUMENTS

See Chapter 23 for the list of consensus standards and other documents that shall be considered part of this standard to the extent referenced in this chapter.