## CHAPTER 16 NONLINEAR RESPONSE HISTORY ANALYSIS

## 16.1 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

16.1.1 Scope It shall be permitted to use nonlinear response history analysis, in accordance with the requirements of this chapter, to demonstrate acceptable strength, stiffness, and ductility to resist maximum considered earthquake (MCER) shaking with acceptable performance. When nonlinear response history analysis is performed, the design shall also satisfy the requirements of Section 16.1.2. Nonlinear response history analysis shall include the effects of horizontal motion, and where required by Section 16.1.3, vertical motion. Documentation of the design and analysis shall be prepared in accordance with Section 16.1.4. Ground motion acceleration histories shall be selected and modi fi ed in accordance with the procedures of Section 16.2. The structure shall be modeled and analyzed in accordance with the criteria in Section 16.3. Analysis results shall meet the acceptance criteria of Section 16.4. Independent structural design review shall be performed in accordance with the requirements of Section 16.5.

16.1.2 Linear Analysis In addition to nonlinear response history analysis, a linear analysis in accordance with one of the applicable procedures of Chapter 12 shall also be performed. The structure ' s design shall meet all applicable criteria of Chapter 12.

## EXCEPTIONS:

1. For Risk Category I, II, and III structures, Sections 12.12.1 and 12.12.5 do not apply to the linear analysis. Where mean computed drifts from the nonlinear analyses exceed 150% of the permissible story drifts per Section 12.12.1, deformation-sensitive nonstructural components shall be designed for 2/3 of these mean drifts.
3. The redundancy factor, ρ , is permitted to be taken as 1.0.
2. The overstrength factor, Ω 0 , is permitted to be taken as 1.0 for the seismic load effects of Section 12.4.3.
4. Where accidental torsion is explicitly modeled in the nonlinear analysis, it shall be permitted to take the value of Ax as unity in the Chapter 12 analysis.

16.1.3 Vertical Response Analysis Nonlinear response history analysis shall explicitly include the effects of vertical response where any of the following occur:

1. Vertical elements of the gravity force-resisting system are discontinuous.
2. For nonbuilding structures, when Chapter 15 requires consideration of vertical earthquake effects.

16.1.4 Documentation Before performing the nonlinear analysis, project-speci fi c design criteria shall be approved by the independent structural design reviewer(s) and the Authority

Having Jurisdiction. The project-speci fi c criteria shall identify the following:

1. The selected seismic and gravity force-resisting systems and procedures used in the structural design.
2. Geotechnical parameters including soil characteristics, recommended foundation types, design parameters, seismic hazard evaluation, target spectra, and selection and scaling of acceleration histories.
3. Design loading, including gravity and environmental loads.
4. Analytical modeling approach and assumptions, including software to be used, de fi nition of mass, identi fi cation of force-controlled and deformation-controlled behaviors, description of which component actions are modeled elastically and inelastically, expected material properties, basis for hysteretic component modeling, component initial stiffness assumptions, joint stiffness assumptions, diaphragm modeling, damping, and procedure for modeling foundation -soil interaction.
5. Summaries of laboratory test and other applicable data used to justify the hysteretic component modeling or used to justify acceptable structural performance.
6. Speci fi c acceptance criteria values used for evaluating performance of elements of the seismic force-resisting system. Associated documentation shall also include identi fi cation of component failure modes deemed indicative of collapse.
7. Where drifts exceed 150% of the values permitted in Section 12.12, the criteria used to demonstrate acceptable deformation compatibility of components of the gravity force-resisting system.

Following completion of the analysis process, the following documentation shall be prepared and presented to the independent structural design reviewer(s) and the Authority Having Jurisdiction:

1. Final geotechnical report, including soil shear strength, stiffness, and damping characteristics; recommended foundation types and design parameters; and seismic hazard evaluation, including both the target spectra and selection and scaling of ground motions.
2. Overall building dynamic behavior, including natural frequencies, mode shapes, and modal mass participation.
3. Key structural system response parameter results and comparisons with the acceptance criteria of Section 16.4.
4. Detailing of critical elements.

## 16.2 GROUND MOTIONS

16.2.1 Target Response Spectrum A target, 5%-damped, MCER response spectrum shall be developed using either the

procedures of Section 16.2.1.1 or Section 16.2.1.2. It shall be permitted to consider the effects of base slab averaging and foundation embedment in accordance with Chapter 19.

Where the effects of vertical earthquake shaking are included in the analysis, a target MCER vertical spectrum shall also be constructed.

16.2.1.1 Method 1 A single target response spectrum shall be developed, based on the requirements of either Section 11.4.6 or Section 11.4.7.

16.2.1.2 Method 2 Two or more site-speci fi c target response spectra shall be developed. When this method is used, the following requirements shall be ful fi lled, in addition to the other requirements of this chapter:

1. Two or more periods shall be selected, corresponding to those periods of vibration that signi fi cantly contribute to the inelastic dynamic response of the building in two orthogonal directions. In the selection of periods, lengthening of the elastic periods of the model shall be considered.
2. For each selected period, a target spectrum shall be created that either matches or exceeds the MCER value at that period. When developing the target spectrum, (1) sitespeci fi c disaggregation shall be performed to identify earthquake events that contribute most to the MCER ground motion at the selected period and (2) the target spectrum shall be developed to capture one or more spectral shapes for dominant magnitude and distance combinations revealed by the disaggregation.
3. The envelope of the target spectra shall not be less than 75% of the spectral values computed using Method 1 of Section 16.2.1.1, for all periods in the range speci fi ed in Section 16.2.3.1.
4. For each target response spectrum, a ground motion suite for response history analyses shall be developed and used in accordance with Sections 16.2.3 through 16.2.4. The acceptance criteria requirements of Section 16.4 shall be evaluated independently for each of the ground motion suites.

Variations on the procedures described in this section are permitted to be used when approved by the design review.

16.2.2 Ground Motion Selection A suite of not less than 11 ground motions shall be selected for each target spectrum. Ground motions shall consist of pairs of orthogonal horizontal ground motion components and, where vertical earthquake effects are considered, a single vertical ground motion component. Ground motions shall be selected from events within the same general tectonic regime and having generally consistent magnitudes and fault distances as those controlling the target spectrum and shall have a spectral shape similar to the target spectrum. For near-fault sites, as de fi ned in Section 11.4.1, and other sites where MCER shaking can exhibit directionality and impulsive characteristics, the proportion of ground motions with near-fault and rupture directivity effects shall represent the probability that MCER shaking will exhibit these effects. Where the required number of recorded ground motions is not available, it shall be permitted to supplement the available records with simulated ground motions. Ground motion simulations shall be consistent with the magnitudes, source characteristics, fault distances, and site conditions controlling the target spectrum.

16.2.3 Ground Motion Modi fi cation Ground motions shall either be amplitude-scaled in accordance with the requirements of Section 16.2.3.2 or spectrally matched in accordance with the requirements of Section 16.2.3.3. Spectral matching shall not be used for near-fault sites unless the pulse characteristics of the ground motions are retained after the matching process has been completed.

16.2.3.1 Period Range for Scaling or Matching Aperiod range shall be determined, corresponding to the vibration periods that contribute signi fi cantly to the building ' s lateral dynamic response. This period range shall have an upper bound, greater than or equal to twice the largest fi rst-mode period in the principal horizontal directions of response, unless a lower value, not less than 1.5 times the largest fi rst-mode period, is justi fi ed by dynamic analysis under MCER ground motions. The lower bound period shall be established such that the period range includes at least the number of elastic modes necessary to achieve 90% mass participation in each principal horizontal direction. The lower bound period shall not exceed 20% of the smallest fi rst-mode period for the two principal horizontal directions of response. Where vertical response is considered in the analysis, the lower bound period used for modi fi cation of vertical components of ground motion need not be taken as less than the larger of 0.1 seconds, or the lowest period at which signi fi cant vertical mass participation occurs.

16.2.3.2 Amplitude Scaling For each horizontal ground motion pair, a maximum-direction spectrum shall be constructed from the two horizontal ground motion components. Each ground motion shall be scaled, with an identical scale factor applied to both horizontal components, such that the average of the maximum-direction spectra from all ground motions generally matches or exceeds the target response spectrum over the period range de fi ned in Section 16.2.3.1. The average of the maximumdirection spectra from all the ground motions shall not fall below 90% of the target response spectrum for any period within the same period range. Where vertical response is considered in the analysis, the vertical component of each ground motion shall be scaled such that the average of the vertical response spectra envelops the target vertical response spectrum over the period range speci fi ed in Section 16.2.3.1.

16.2.3.3 Spectral Matching Each pair of ground motions shall be modi fi ed such that the average of the maximum-direction spectra for the suite equals or exceeds 110% of the target spectrum over the period range de fi ned in Section 16.2.3.1. Where vertical response is considered in the analysis, the vertical component of each ground motion shall be spectrally matched to the target vertical response spectrum, such that the average of the matched spectra does not fall below the target vertical spectrum in the scaling range of Section 16.2.3.1.

16.2.4 Application of Ground Motions to the Structural Model Ground motions shall be applied to the supports of the structural model. For near-fault sites, as de fi ned in Section 11.4.1, each pair of horizontal ground motion components representative of a nearby fault source shall be rotated to the fault-normal and fault-parallel directions of the causative fault and applied to the building in such orientation. For all other selected ground motions at near-fault sites, and for all ground motions at other sites, each pair of horizontal ground motion components shall be applied to the building at orthogonal orientations, such that the average (or mean) of the component response spectrum for the records applied in each direction is within ±10% of the mean of the component response spectra of all records applied for the period range speci fi ed in Section 16.2.3.1.

## 16.3 MODELING AND ANALYSIS

16.3.1 Modeling Mathematical models shall be threedimensional and shall conform to the requirements of this section and Section 12.7. For structures that have subterranean levels, the structural model shall extend to the foundation level and ground motions shall be input at the foundation level. All elements that signi fi cantly affect seismic response when subjected to MCER ground motions shall be included. Modeling of element nonlinear hysteretic behavior shall be consistent with ASCE 41 or applicable laboratory test data. Test data shall not be extrapolated beyond tested deformationlevels. Degradationin elementstrength or stiffnessshall be included in the hysteretic models unless it can be demonstrated that response is not suf fi cient to produce these effects.

Analysis models shall be capable of representing the fl exibility of fl oor diaphragms where this is signi fi cant to the structure ' s response. Diaphragms at horizontal and vertical discontinuities in lateral resistance shall be explicitly modeled in a manner that permits capturing the force transfers and resulting deformations.

16.3.2 Gravity Load The modeling of, and demands on, elements in the analysis model shall be determined considering earthquake effects acting in combination with expected gravity loads, both with and without live load. Gravity loads with live load shall be taken as 1.0 D +0.5 L , where L shall be taken as 80% of unreduced live loads that exceed 100 lb ∕ ft 2 (4.79 kN ∕ m 2 ) and 40% of all other unreduced live loads. Gravity loads without live load shall be taken as 1.0 D .

EXCEPTION: Where the sum, over the entire structure, of the expected live load (0.5 L ), as de fi ned above, does not exceed 25% of the total dead load, D , and the live load intensity, L 0 , over at least 75% of the structure is less than 100 psf (4.79 kN ∕ m 2 ), the case without live load need not be considered.

16.3.3 P-Delta Effects P-delta effects considering the spatial distribution of gravity loads shall be included in the analysis.

16.3.4 Torsion Inherent eccentricity resulting from any offset in the centers of mass and stiffness at each level shall be accounted for in the analysis. In addition, where a Type 1 horizontal structural irregularly exists, as de fi ned in Section 12.3.2.1, accidental eccentricity consisting of an assumed displacement of the center of mass each way from its actual location by a distance equal to 5% of the diaphragm dimension of the structure parallel to the direction of mass shift shall be considered. The required 5% displacement of the center of mass need not be applied in both orthogonal directions at the same time.

16.3.5 Damping Hysteretic energy dissipation of structural members shall be modeled directly. Additional inherent damping, not associated with inelastic behavior of elements, shall be modeled appropriate to the structure type and shall not exceed 2.5% equivalent viscous damping in the signi fi cant modes of response.

16.3.6 Explicit Foundation Modeling When soil spring and/or dashpot elements are included in the structural model, horizontal input ground motions shall be applied to the horizontal soil elements rather than being applied to the foundation directly.

## 16.4 ANALYSIS RESULTS AND ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA

Structures shall be demonstrated to meet the global acceptance criteria of Section 16.4.1 and the element-level acceptance criteria of Section 16.4.2.

The mean value of story drift, and element demand, Qu , shall be used to evaluate acceptability.

EXCEPTION: Where a ground motion produces unacceptable response as permitted in Section 16.4.1.1, 120% of the median value, but not less than the mean value obtained from the suite of analyses producing acceptable response shall be used.

## 16.4.1 Global Acceptance Criteria

16.4.1.1 Unacceptable Response Unacceptable response to ground motion shall consist of any of the following:

1. Analytical solution fails to converge,
2. Predicted demands on deformation-controlled elements exceed the valid range of modeling,
3. Predicted demands on critical or ordinary force-controlled elements, as de fi ned in Section 16.4.2, exceed the element capacity,
4. Predicted deformation demands on elements not explicitly modeled exceed the deformation limits at which the members are no longer able to carry their gravity loads,
5. Peak transient story drift ratio exceeds 150% of the permissible value of mean transient story drift, as per Section 16.4.1.2, or
6. For structures exceeding 240 ft (73m) in height, the residual story drift for any story exceeds a value of 0.015 hsx .

Unacceptable response to ground motion shall not be permitted.

EXCEPTION: For Risk Category I and II structures, where spectral matching of ground motion is not used, not more than one motion shall be permitted to produce unacceptable response.

16.4.1.2 Transient Story Drift The mean transient story drift for all building heights, Δ in ft (m), shall not exceed two times the limits of Table 12.12-1. Additionally, for structures exceeding 100 ft (30 m) in height, Δ shall not exceed the value obtained from Equation (16.4-1):

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where hn and hsx are measured in ft (m). The value obtained from Equation (16.4-1) need not be taken less than 0.03 hn .

The transient story drift ratio shall be computed as the absolute value of the largest difference of the de fl ections of vertically aligned points at the top and bottom of the story under consideration along any of the edges of the structure within a single response history analysis. For masonry shear wall structures, the limits of Table 12.12-1 applicable to masonry cantilever wall structures and other masonry wall structures shall not apply and these structures shall instead comply with the limits for other structures.

16.4.1.3 Residual Story Drift For structures exceeding 240 ft (73 m) in height, the mean residual story drift shall not exceed 0.01 hsx , where residual story drift is taken as the maximum value of story drift in a structure at rest, following response to an earthquake motion.

16.4.2 Element-Level Acceptance Criteria All element actions shall be classi fi ed either as force-controlled or deformationcontrolled, in accordance with ACI 318 for reinforced concrete elements or ASCE 41 for elements of other materials.

For each element action, the quantity, Qu , shall be computed. Qu shall be taken as the mean value of the response parameter of interest obtained from the suite of analyses.

Force-controlled actions shall be evaluated for acceptability in accordance with Section 16.4.2.1. Deformation-controlled actions shall be evaluated for acceptability in accordance with Section 16.4.2.2. Where required by Section 16.4.2.1, element actions shall be categorized as Critical, Ordinary, or Noncritical.

16.4.2.1 Force-Controlled Actions Force-controlled actions shall satisfy Equation (16.4-1) and (16.4-2):

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where D and L are as de fi ned in Section 16.3.2, SMS is the siteadjusted Maximum Considered Earthquake Spectral Acceleration at a period of 0.2 seconds; I e is the Importance Factor prescribed in Section 1.5.1; Qu is the mean value of the demand computed from the suite of analyses; Qns is the portion of the demand caused by loads other than seismic; Rn is the nominal strength speci fi ed by the applicable material standard. The resistance factor ϕ for Critical elements shall be taken as the value speci fi ed by the applicable material standard. The resistance factor ϕ for Ordinary elements shall be taken as 0.9. The resistance factor ϕ for Noncritical elements shall be taken as 1.0. B is a factor to account for differences between expected strength Rne and nominal resistance Rn . It is permitted to assign B a value of 1.0, or, alternatively, B can be taken as 0.9 Rne / Rn , where Rne is the expected strength of the element.

Where an industry standard referenced in Chapter 14 de fi nes expected strength, that value shall be used. Where this is not de fi ned, it shall be permitted to calculate expected strength as the nominal strength de fi ned in industry standards, except that expected material properties as de fi ned in ACI 318 for reinforced concrete elements and ASCE 41 for elements of other materials shall be used in lieu of speci fi ed values.

## EXCEPTIONS:

1. Noncritical force-controlled actions that are modeled, including consideration of strength loss effects, need not satisfy Equations (16.4-1) or (16.4-2).
2. Force-controlled actions limited by formation of a yield mechanism, other than shear in structural walls, need only satisfy Equations (16.4-3) and (16.4-4):

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Where Emc is the capacity-limited earthquake effect associated with developing the plastic capacity of yielding components, determined in accordance with the applicable material standard, or alternatively, determined by rational analysis considering expected material properties including strain hardening effects where applicable.

3. Where response to vertical earthquake shaking is directly included in the analysis, the fi rst term in equations 16.4-1 through 16.4-4 can be taken as 1.2D (16.4-1 and 16.4-3) or 0.9D (16.4-2 and 16.4-4).

16.4.2.2 Deformation-Controlled Actions The valid range of modeling for deformation-controlled element actions shall be as established in the applicable material design standard. Where the material design standard does not specify the valid range of modeling, this parameter shall be established as the maximum value of the parameter at which the element model is capable of replicating the hysteretic behavior and load-carrying capability observed in laboratory testing of similar elements. Where suitable test data is not available, either the valid range of modeling of the deformation capacity speci fi ed in ACI 318 for reinforced concrete elements or the maximum deformation parameter as speci fi ed by ASCE 41 for elements of other materials shall be used. It shall be permitted to extend the valid range of modeling for an element beyond these deformations if the element strength and stiffness are degraded to negligible values once these deformations are reached.

16.4.2.3 Elements of the Gravity Force-Resisting System Elements that are not part of the seismic force-resisting system shall be demonstrated to be capable of supporting gravity loads using the mean building displacements from the suite of nonlinear response history analyses.

## 16.5 DESIGN REVIEW

An independent structural design review shall be performed in accordance with the requirements of this section. Upon completion of the review, the reviewer(s) shall provide the Authority Having Jurisdiction and the registered design professional with a letter attesting to:

1. Scope of review performed,
2. Whether the reviewer(s) concur with the analysis and its applicability to the design,
3. Conformance of the design to applicable requirements of the standard, and
4. Any items relating to the design or analysis that require further resolution by the Authority Having Jurisdiction.

16.5.1 Reviewer Quali fi cations Reviewer(s) shall consist of one or more individuals acceptable to the Authority Having Jurisdiction and possessing knowledge of the following items:

1. The requirements of this standard and the standards referenced herein, as they pertain to design of the type of structure under consideration.
2. Selection and scaling of ground motions for use in nonlinear response history analysis.
3. Analytical structural modeling for use in nonlinear response history analysis, including use of laboratory tests in the creation and calibration of the structural analysis models, and including knowledge of soil -structure interaction if used in the analysis or the treatment of ground motions.
4. Behavior of structural systems, of the type under consideration, when subjected to earthquake loading.

At least one reviewer shall be a registered design professional.

16.5.2 Review Scope The scope of review shall include the items identi fi ed in Section 16.1.4, as well as the associated project documentation that demonstrates conformance to the design criteria.

## 16.6 CONSENSUS STANDARDS AND OTHER REFERENCED DOCUMENTS

See Chapter 23 for the list of consensus standards and other documents that shall be considered part of this standard to the extent referenced in this chapter.