## CHAPTER 28

## WIND LOADS ON BUILDINGS: MAIN WIND FORCE RESISTING SYSTEM (ENVELOPE PROCEDURE)

## 28.1 SCOPE

28.1.1 Building Types This chapter applies to the determination of Main Wind Force Resisting System (MWFRS) wind loads, using the Envelope Procedure, on low-rise buildings as de fi ned in Section 26.2.

28.1.2 Conditions The design wind loads determined in accordance with this section shall apply to buildings complying with all the following conditions:

1. Building is a regular-shaped building as de fi ned in Section 26.2.
2. Building does not have response characteristics that make it subject to across-wind loading, vortex shedding, or instability caused by galloping or fl utter, nor does it have a site location for which channeling effects or buffeting in the wake of upwind obstructions warrant special consideration.
3. Building does not have an arched, barrel, or unusually shaped roof.

28.1.3 Limitations The provisions of this chapter take into consideration mean and fl uctuating loads caused by winds acting on rigid buildings. Buildings that do not meet the conditions of Section 28.1.2 shall be designed using appropriate procedures in Chapter 27, recognized literature documenting such wind load effects, or the Wind Tunnel Procedure speci fi ed in Chapter 31.

28.1.4 Shielding There shall be no reductions in velocity pressure caused by shielding that may be afforded by other buildings and other structures or terrain features.

User Note: Use Chapter 28 to determine the wind pressure on the MWFRS of low-rise buildings that have a fl at, gable, or hip roof. These provisions use the Envelope Procedure by calculating wind pressures from the specific equation applicable to each building surface. For building shapes and heights for which these provisions are applicable, this method generally yields the lowest wind pressure of all the analytical methods speci fi ed in this standard.

## 28.2 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

The steps required for the determination of MWFRS wind loads on low-rise buildings are shown in Table 28.2-1.

## Table 28.2-1. Steps to Determine Wind Loads on MWFRS Low-Rise Buildings.

Step 1: Determine risk category of building; see Table 1.5-1.

- Step 2: Determine the basic wind speed, V , for applicable risk category; see Figure 26.5-1.

Step 3: Determine wind load parameters:

- Wind directionality factor, Kd ; see Section 26.6 and Table 26.6-1.
- Exposure Category (B, C, or D); see Section 26.7.
- Topographic factor, Kzt ; see Section 26.8 and Figure 26.8-1.
- Ground elevation factor, Ke ; see Section 26.9 and Table 26.9-1.
- Enclosure classi fi cation; see Section 26.12.
- Internal pressure coef fi cient, ( GCpi ); see Section 26.13 and Table 26.13-1.

Step 4: Determine velocity pressure exposure coef fi cient, Kz or Kh ; see Table 26.10-1.

Step 5: Determine velocity pressure, qz or qh , from Equation (26.10-1).

- Step 6: Determine external pressure coef fi cient, ( GCpf ), for each load case using Section 28.3.2 for fl at and gable roofs.

User Note: See Commentary Figure C28.3-2 for guidance on hip roofs.

Step 7: Calculate wind pressure, p , from Equation (28.3-1).

28.2.1 Wind Load Parameters Speci fi ed in Chapter 26 The following wind load parameters shall be determined in accordance with Chapter 26:

- Basic wind speed, V (Section 26.5);
- Wind directionality factor, Kd (Section 26.6);
- Exposure category (Section 26.7);
- Topographic factor, Kzt (Section 26.8);
- Ground elevation factor, Ke (Section 26.9);
- Velocity pressure exposure coef fi cient, Kz or Kh (Section 26.10);
- Enclosure classi fi cation (Section 26.12); and
- Internal pressure coef fi cient, ( GCpi ) (Section 26.13).

## 28.3 WIND LOADS: MAIN WIND FORCE RESISTING SYSTEM

28.3.1 Design Wind Pressure for Low-Rise Buildings Design wind pressures for the MWFRS of low-rise buildings shall be determined by the following equation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where qh = Velocity pressure evaluated at mean roof height h , as de fi ned in Section 26.3;

Kd = Wind directionality factor, see Section 26.6; ( GCpf ) = External pressure coef fi cient from Section 28.3.2; and ( GCpi ) = Internal pressure coef fi cient from Table 26.13-1.

28.3.1.1 External Pressure Coef fi cients, ( GC p f ) The combined gust-effect factor and external pressure coef fi cients used in this chapter, ( GCpf ), are not permitted to be separated.

28.3.2 Load Cases Buildings shall be evaluated using each of the basic load cases and the torsional load cases acting independently in accordance with this section.

EXCEPTION: Design for the torsional cases is not required for

1. One-story buildings with h less than or equal to 30 ft (9.1 m),
2. One-story and two-story light-frame buildings, or
3. One-story and two-story buildings with fl exible diaphragms.

28.3.2.1 Basic Load Cases The external pressure coef fi cient, ( GCpf ; ), for basic load cases shall be determined in accordance with Figure 28.3-1. The building shall be evaluated with each corner taken as the windward corner, with loading patterns applied as shown, and with all zones being loaded simultaneously. Each corner shall be evaluated separately for the two load cases. In each load case, Zones 2E and 3E shall be located along the roof edge perpendicular to the ridge that is nearest the corner being evaluated. Combinations of external and internal pressures (see Table 26.13-1) shall be evaluated as required to obtain the most severe loadings.

For fl at roofs, the roof angle, θ , shall be taken as 0, with the Zone 2/3 and Zone 2E/3E boundary located at the mid-width of the building.

The roof pressure coef fi cient, ( GCpf ), when negative in Zones 2 and 2E, shall be applied in Zone 2/2E for a distance from the edge of roof equal to 0.5 times the horizontal dimension of the building parallel to the direction of the MWFRS being designed or 2.5 times the eave height at the windward wall, whichever is less; the remainder of Zone 2/2E extending to the ridge line shall use the pressure coef fi cient ( GCpf ) for Zone 3/3E.

28.3.2.2 Torsional Load Cases The external pressure coef fi cient, ( GCpf ), for torsional load cases shall be determined in accordance with Figure 28.3-2. For Zones 1 to 6 and 1E to 6E, Load Case 3 shall use Load Case 1 pressure coef fi cients from Figure 28.3-1, and Load Case 4 shall use Load Case 2 pressure coef fi cients from Figure 28.3-1. For zones designated with a ' T ' (1T to 6T), the pressure coef fi cients from Figure 28.3-2 shall be used.

The building shall be evaluated with each corner taken as the windward corner with loading patterns applied as shown and with all zones being loaded simultaneously. Each corner shall be evaluated separately for the two load cases. In each load case, Zones 2E and 3E shall be located along the roof edge perpendicular to the ridge that is nearest the corner being evaluated. Combinations of external and internal pressures (see Table 26.13-1) shall be evaluated as required to obtain the most severe loadings.

For fl at roofs, the roof angle, θ , shall be taken as 0 with the Zone 2/3 and Zone 2E/3E boundary at the mid-width of the building. The roof pressure coef fi cient, ( GCpf ), when negative in Zones 2 and 2E, shall be applied in Zone 2/2E for a distance from the edge of roof equal to 0.5 times the horizontal dimension of the building parallel to the direction of the MWFRS being designed or 2.5 times the eave height at the windward wall, whichever is less; the remainder of Zone 2/2E extending to the ridge line shall use the pressure coef fi cient, ( GCpf ), for Zone 3/3E.

28.3.3 Total Horizontal Load The total horizontal shear shall not be less than that determined by neglecting the wind forces on the roof.

EXCEPTION: This provision does not apply to buildings using moment frames for the MWFRS.

28.3.4 Parapets The design wind pressure for the effect of parapets on MWFRS of low-rise buildings with fl at, gable, or hip roofs shall be determined by the following equation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where pp = Combined net pressure on the parapet caused by the combination of the net pressures from the front and back parapet surfaces; plus (and minus) signs signify net pressure acting toward (and away from) the front (exterior) side of the parapet;

qp = Velocity pressure evaluated at the top of the parapet; Kd = Wind directionality factor, see Section 26.6; and

( GCpn ) = Combined net pressure coef fi cient: þ 1.5 for windward parapet, -1.0 for leeward parapet.

28.3.5 Roof Overhangs The positive external pressure on the bottom surface of windward roof overhangs shall be determined using GCp = 0.7 in combination with the top surface pressures determined using Figure 28.3-1.

28.3.6 Minimum Design Wind Loads The wind pressure to be used in the design of the MWFRS for an enclosed or partially enclosed building shall not be less than 16 lb/ft 2 (0.77 kN/m 2 ) multiplied by the wall area of the building, and 8 lb/ft 2 (0.38 kN/ m 2 ) multiplied by the roof area of the building projected onto a vertical plane normal to the assumed wind direction.

28.3.7 Horizontal Wind Loads on Open or Partially Enclosed Buildings with Transverse Frames and Pitched Roofs A horizontal pressure in the longitudinal direction (parallel to the ridge) that acts in combination with the roof load calculated in Section 27.4.3 for an open or partially enclosed building with transverse frames and a pitched roof ( θ &lt; 45 degrees) shall be determined by the following equation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where qh = Velocity pressure evaluated at mean roof height h using the exposure as de fi ned in Section 26.7.3;

Diagrams

4E

LEEWARD

(3

(2

LEEWARD

<!-- image -->

## Notation

- a =10% of least horizontal dimension or 0.4 h ,whichever is smaller, but not less than either 4% of least horizontal dimension or 3 ft (0.9 m).

EXCEPTION: For buildings with θ = 0 to 7° and a least horizontal dimension greater than 300 ft (90 m), dimension a shall be limited to a maximum of 0.8 h.

- h =Mean roof height, ft (m), except that eave height shall be used for θ ≤ 10°.
- θ = Angle of plane of roof from horizontal, in degrees.

## Load Case 1

|                        |   Building Surface | Building Surface   | Building Surface   | Building Surface   | Building Surface   | Building Surface   | Building Surface   | Building Surface   |
|------------------------|--------------------|--------------------|--------------------|--------------------|--------------------|--------------------|--------------------|--------------------|
| Roof Angle θ (degrees) |               1    | 2                  | 3                  | 4                  | 1E                 | 2E                 | 3E                 | 4E                 |
| 0-5                    |               0.4  | 0.69 -             | 0.37 -             | 0.29 -             | 0.61               | 1.07 -             | 0.53 -             | 0.43 -             |
| 20                     |               0.53 | 0.69 -             | 0.48 -             | 0.43 -             | 0.80               | 1.07 -             | 0.69 -             | 0.64 -             |
| 30-45                  |               0.56 | 0.21               | 0.43 -             | 0.37 -             | 0.69               | 0.27               | 0.53 -             | 0.48 -             |
| 90                     |               0.56 | 0.56               | 0.37 -             | -0.37              | 0.69               | 0.69               | 0.48 -             | -0.48              |

## Load Case 2

|      | Building Surface   | Building Surface   | Building Surface   | Building Surface   |   Building Surface | Building Surface   | Building Surface   | Building Surface   | Building Surface   | Building Surface   | Building Surface   | Building Surface   |
|------|--------------------|--------------------|--------------------|--------------------|--------------------|--------------------|--------------------|--------------------|--------------------|--------------------|--------------------|--------------------|
|      | 1                  | 2                  | 3                  | 4                  |                5   | 6                  | 1E                 | 2E                 | 3E                 | 4E                 | 5E                 | 6E                 |
| 0-90 | 0.45 -             | 0.69 -             | 0.37 -             | 0.45 -             |                0.4 | 0.29 -             | 0.48 -             | 1.07 -             | 0.53 -             | 0.48 -             | 0.61               | 0.43 -             |

## Notes

1. Plus and minus signs signify pressures acting toward and away from the surfaces, respectively.
2. For values of θ other than those shown, linear interpolation is permitted.

Figure 28.3-1. Basic load cases for main wind force resisting system [ h ≤ 60 ft ( h ≤ 18.3 m)]: external pressure coefficients, ( GCpf ), for enclosed, partially enclosed, and partially open buildings -low-rise walls and roofs.

Diagrams

4T

LEENARD

3

6E

3

<!-- image -->

## Notation

- a = 10% of least horizontal dimension or 0.4 h , whichever is smaller, but not less than either 4% of least horizontal dimensionor 3ft (0.9 m).
- h =Mean roof height, in feet (meters), except that eave height shall be used for θ ≤ 10°.
- EXCEPTION: For buildings with θ = 0 to 7° and a least horizontal dimension greater than 300 ft (90 m), dimension a shall be limited to a maximum of 0.8 h .
- θ = Angle of plane of roof from horizontal, in degrees.

## Load Case 3

|                        | Building Surface   | Building Surface   | Building Surface   | Building Surface   |
|------------------------|--------------------|--------------------|--------------------|--------------------|
| Roof Angle θ (degrees) | 1T                 | 2T                 | 3T                 | 4T                 |
| 0-5                    | 0.10               | -0.17              | -0.09              | -0.07              |
| 20                     | 0.13               | -0.17              | -0.12              | -0.11              |
| 30-45                  | 0.14               | 0.05               | -0.11              | -0.09              |
| 90                     | 0.14               | 0.14               | -0.09              | -0.09              |

## Load Case 4

|                        | Building Surface   | Building Surface   |
|------------------------|--------------------|--------------------|
| Roof Angle θ (degrees) | 5T                 | 6T                 |
| 0-90                   | 0.10               | -0.07              |

## Notes

1. Plus and minus signs signify pressures acting toward and away from the surfaces, respectively.
2. For values of θ other than those shown, linear interpolation is permitted.

Figure 28.3-2. Torsional load cases for main wind force resisting system [ h ≤ 60 ft ( h ≤ 18.3 m)]: external pressure coefficients, (GC pf ), for enclosed, partially enclosed, and partially open buildings -low-rise walls and roofs.

4E

4E

2T

Figure 28.3-3. Horizontal wind loads on open or partially enclosed buildings with transverse frames and pitched roofs: definitions of geometric terminology.

<!-- image -->

- Kd = Wind directionality factor, see Section 26.6;
- ( GCpf ) = External pressure coef fi cient given in Figure 28.3-1 for Load Case 2, where building surfaces 5 and 5E shall be used to compute the average windward end wall pressure and building surfaces 6 and 6E shall be used to compute the average leeward end wall pressure;

KS = Shielding factor = 0.60 þ 0.073 ð n -3 Þþ ð 1.25 ϕ 1.8 Þ ;

- KB = Frame width factor = 1.8 -0.01 B , B &lt; 100 ft ( B &lt; 30.5 m), or 0.8, B ≥ 100 ft ( B ≥ 30.5 m);
- ϕ = Solidity ratio = AS ∕ AE ;
- B = Width of the building perpendicular to the ridge, ft (m);
- n = Number of frames, but shall not be taken as less than 3, even for small 2-frame building;
- AS = Effective solid area of the end wall, that is, the projected area of any portion of the end wall that would be exposed to the wind (Figure 28.3-3); and

AE = Total end wall area for an equivalent enclosed building (Figure 28.3-3).

The total longitudinal force F to be resisted by the MWFRS shall be determined by Equation (28.3-4):

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Equation (28.3-3) is applicable to buildings with open end walls and with end walls fully or partially enclosed with cladding. For all cases, AE shall be the area that is equivalent to the end wall fully enclosed. The longitudinal force, F , given by Equation (28.3-4) represents the total force for which the MWFRSlongitudinal bracing shall be designed. The distribution to each sidewall shall be based on the force F applied at the centroid of the end wall area AE .

Fascia load need not be considered separately if fascia areas are included in the AS calculation.

## 28.4 CONSENSUS STANDARDS AND OTHER REFERENCED DOCUMENTS

No consensus standards and other documents that shall be considered part of this standard are referenced in this chapter.

Downloaded from ascelibrary.org by Serge Terentieff on 03/10/22. Copyright ASCE. For personal use only; all rights reserved.

This page intentionally left blank