## 30.1 SCOPE

30.1.1 Building Types This chapter applies to the determination of wind pressures on components and cladding (C&amp;C) on buildings.

1. Part 1 is applicable to an enclosed, partially enclosed, or partially open
- Low-rise building (see de fi nition in Section 26.2); or
- Building with h ≤ 60 ft (18.3 m).

The building has a fl at roof, gable roof, multispan gable roof, hip roof, monoslope roof, stepped roof, or sawtooth roof, and the wind pressures are calculated from a wind pressure equation.

2. Part 2 is applicable to an enclosed, partially enclosed, or partially open
- Building with h &gt; 60 ft (18.3 m).

The building has a fl at roof, pitched roof, gable roof, hip roof, mansard roof, arched roof, or domed roof, and the wind pressures are calculated from a wind pressure equation.

3. Part 3 is applicable to an open building of all heights that has a pitched free roof, monoslope free roof, or troughed free roof.
4. Part 4 is applicable to building appurtenances such as roof overhangs, parapets, and rooftop equipment.
5. Part 5 is applicable to non-building structures -circular bins, silos, and tanks; rooftop solar panels and roof pavers.
- Circular bins, silos, and tanks with h ≤ 120 ft (38.6 m);
- Rooftop solar panels: Buildings of all heights with fl at roofs or gable or hip roofs with roof slopes less than or equal to 7 degrees; and
- Roof pavers: Buildings of all heights with roof slopes less than or equal to 7 degrees.

30.1.2 Conditions A building that has design wind loads determined in accordance with this chapter shall comply with all of the following conditions:

1. The building is a regular-shaped building as de fi ned in Section 26.2; and
2. The building does not have response characteristics that make it subject to across-wind loading, vortex shedding, or instability caused by galloping or fl utter; nor does it have a site location for which channeling effects or buffeting in the wake of upwind obstructions warrant special consideration.

30.1.3 Limitations The provisions of this chapter take into consideration the load magni fi cation effect caused by gusts in

## CHAPTER 30 WIND LOADS: COMPONENTS AND CLADDING

resonance with along-wind vibrations of fl exible buildings. The loads on buildings that do not meet the requirements of Section 30.1.2 or that have unusual shapes or response characteristics shall be determined using recognized literature documenting such wind load effects or shall use the wind tunnel procedure speci fi ed in Chapter 31.

30.1.4 Shielding There shall be no reductions in velocity pressure caused by apparent shielding afforded by buildings and other structures or terrain features.

30.1.5 Air-Permeable Cladding Design wind loads determined from Chapter 30 shall be used for air-permeable claddings, including modular vegetative roof assemblies, unless approved test data or recognized literature demonstrates lower loads for the type of air-permeable cladding being considered.

## 30.2 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS

30.2.1 Wind Load Parameters Speci fi ed in Chapter 26 The following wind load parameters are speci fi ed in Chapter 26:

- Basic wind speed, V (Section 26.5),
- Wind directionality factor, Kd (Section 26.6),
- Exposure category (Section 26.7),
- Topographic factor, Kzt (Section 26.8),
- Ground elevation factor, Ke (Section 26.9),
- Velocity pressure exposure coef fi cient, Kz or Kh (Section 26.10.1); Velocity pressure, qz (Section 26.10.2),
- Gust-effect factor (Section 26.11),
- Enclosure classi fi cation (Section 26.12), and
- Internal pressure coef fi cient, ( GCpi ) (Section 26.13).

30.2.2 Minimum Design Wind Pressures The design wind pressure for C&amp;C of buildings shall not be less than a net pressure of 16 lb/ft 2 (0.77 kN/m 2 ) acting in either direction normal to the surface.

30.2.3 Tributary Areas Greater than 700 ft 2 (65 m 2 ) C&amp;C elements with tributary areas greater than 700 ft 2 (65 m 2 ) shall be permitted to be designed using the provisions for main wind force resisting systems.

30.2.4 External Pressure Coef fi cients Combined gust-effect factor and external pressure coef fi cients for C&amp;C, ( GCp ), are given in the fi gures associated with this chapter. The pressure coef fi cient values and gust-effect factor shall not be separated.

## PART 1: LOW-RISE BUILDINGS

User Note: Use Part 1 of Chapter 30 to determine wind pressures on C&amp;C of enclosed, partially enclosed, or partially open low-rise buildings that have roof shapes as speci fi ed in the applicable fi gures. The provisions in Part 1 are based on the Envelope Procedure, with wind pressures calculated using the specified equation as applicable to each building surface. For buildings for which these provisions are applicable, this method generally yields the lowest wind pressures of all analytical methods contained in this standard.

## 30.3 BUILDING TYPES

The provisions of Section 30.3 are applicable to an enclosed, partially enclosed, or partially open

- Low-rise building (see de fi nition in Section 26.2); or
- Building with h ≤ 60 ft (18.3 m).

The building has a fl at roof, gable roof, multispan gable roof, hip roof, monoslope roof, stepped roof, or sawtooth roof. The steps required for the determination of wind loads on C&amp;C for these building types are shown in Table 30.3-1.

30.3.1 Conditions For the determination of the design wind pressures on the C&amp;C using the provisions of Section 30.3.2, the conditions indicated on the selected fi gure(s) shall be applicable to the building under consideration.

30.3.2 Design Wind Pressures Design wind pressures on C&amp;C elements of low-rise buildings and buildings with h ≤ 60 ft (18.3 m) shall be determined from the following equation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where qh = Velocity pressure evaluated at mean roof height h as de fi ned in Section 26.10;

Kd = Wind directionality factor, see Section 26.6; and ( GCp ) = External pressure coef fi cients given in

- Figure 30.3-1 (walls),
- Figures 30.3-2A -G( fl at roofs, gable roofs, and hip roofs) and 30.5.2 (pitched free roofs),
- Figure 30.3-3 (stepped roofs),
- Figure 30.3-4 (multispan gable roofs),
- Figsure 30.3-5A -B (monoslope roofs),
- Figure 30.3-6 (sawtooth roofs),
- Figure 30.3-7 (domed roofs),
- Figure 30.3-8 (arched roofs),
- Figure 30.3-2A (bottom surfaces of elevated buildings).

( GCpi ) = Internal pressure coef fi cient given in Table 26.13-1.

30.3.2.1 Bottom Horizontal Surface of Elevated Buildings. Design wind pressures for C&amp;C elements on the bottom fl at horizontal surface of elevated buildings shall be determined using the roof pressure coef fi cients from Figure 30.3-2A with the following modi fi cations:

1. hB shall be the height above grade of the bottom surface of the elevated building, as depicted in Figure 30.3-1A. The value of h shall equal hB for determining zone dimensions

## Table 30.3-1. Steps to Determine C&amp;C Wind Loads for Enclosed, Partially Enclosed, and Partially Open Low-Rise Buildings.

Step 1: Determine risk category; see Table 1.5-1.

Step 2: Determine the basic wind speed, V , for applicable risk category; see Figure. 26.5-1.

Step 3: Determine the wind load parameters:

- Wind directionality factor, Kd ; see Section 26.6 and Table 26.61.
- Exposure Category B, C, or D; see Section 26.7.
- Topographic factor, Kzt ; see Section 26.8 and Figure 26.8-1.
- Ground elevation factor, Ke ; Section 26.9 and Table 26.9-1.
- Enclosure classi fi cation; see Section 26.12.
- Internal pressure coef fi cient, ( GCpi ); see Section 26.13 and Table 26.13-1.

Step 4: Determine velocity pressure exposure coef fi cient, Kh ; see Table 26.10-1.

Step 5: Determine velocity pressure, qh , Equation (26.10-1).

Step 6: Determine external pressure coef fi cient, ( GCp ):

- Walls; see Figure 30.3-1.
- Flat roofs, gable roofs, hip roofs; see Figure 30.3-2.
- Stepped roofs; see Figure 30.3-3.
- Multispan gable roofs; see Figure 30.3-4.
- Monoslope roofs; see Figure 30.3-5.
- Sawtooth roofs; see Figure 30.3-6.
- Domed roofs; see Figure 30.3-7.
- Arched roofs; see Figure 30.3-8.
- Bottom horizontal surface of elevated buildings; see Section 30.3.2.1.

Step 7: Calculate wind pressure, p ; Equation (30.3-1).

from Figure 30.3-2A. For elevated buildings with a fl at bottom horizontal building surface and situated on a slope, hB shall be taken as the maximum height between the slope and the bottom of the elevated building.

2. Areas of the horizontal surface above partially enclosed spaces and areas extending aB perpendicular to walls beneath the elevated building with plan dimension greater than 4 ft (1.2 m), as shown in the shaded regions in Figure 30.3-1A, shall be designed to resist positive pressures equal to the Zone 4 wall pressures obtained using Figure 30.3-1. The value of aB shall equal 0.4 hB or the width of the wall, whichever is smaller for determining zone dimensions from Figure 30.3-1A.

The loading convention shall denote downward loading on the bottom surface with negative pressure coef fi cients and upward loading on the bottom surface with positive pressure coef fi cients.

EXCEPTION: The provisions of Section 30.3.2.1 do not apply to buildings with hB &lt; 2 ft (0.61 m).

## PART 2: BUILDINGS WITH h &gt; 60 ft [( h &gt; 18.3 m)]

User Note: Use Part 2 of Chapter 30 for determining wind pressures for C&amp;C of enclosed, partially enclosed, or partially open buildings with h ≤ 60 ft (18.3 m) that have roof shapes as speci fi ed in the applicable fi gures. These provisions are based on the Directional Procedure with wind pressures calculated from the specified equation applicable to each building surface.

ell, (aup)

-1

1.6

-1.4

-1.2

-1

0

-0.

.8

-0.6

-0.2

-0.4

0

+0.4

+0.2

+0.6

+0.8

+1.0

+1.2

1

(0.1)

= Valls

10

ELEVATION

10 20

-1.4

-1.1

-0.8

+0.7

+1.0

50 100 200 500 1000

(0.9) (1.9)

(4.6) (9.3) (18.6) (46.5) (92.9)

Effective Wind Area. It' (m?)

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

- area A , ft 2  (m 2 ).

Figure 30.3-1. Components and cladding, h ≤ 60 ft (18.3 m): external pressure coefficients ( GCp ) for enclosed, partially enclosed, and partially open buildings -walls.

500

0.2hg

0.6hp :0.6hg

-X-

10.6kB

0. 6h3

Figure 30.3-1A. Components and cladding [ h ≤ 60 ft (18.3 m)]: external pressure coefficient zones for enclosed, partially enclosed, and partially open elevated buildings with partially enclosed spaces and areas beneath the elevated building -bottom horizontal surface of elevated buildings.

<!-- image -->

## 30.4 BUILDING TYPES

The provisions of Section 30.4 are applicable to an enclosed, partially enclosed, or partially open building with a mean roof height [ h &gt; 60 ft ( h &gt; 18.3 m)] with a fl at roof, pitched roof, gable roof, hip roof, mansard roof, arched roof, or domed roof. The steps required for the determination of wind loads on C&amp;C for these building types are shown in Table 30.4-1.

30.4.1 Conditions For the determination of the design wind pressures on the C&amp;C using the provisions of Section 30.4.2, the conditions indicated on the selected fi gure(s) shall be applicable to the building under consideration.

30.4.2 Design Wind Pressures Design wind pressures on C&amp;C for all buildings with [ h &gt; 60 ft ( h &lt; 18.3 m)] shall be determined from the following equation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Table 30.4-1. Steps to determine C&amp;C wind loads for enclosed, partially enclosed, or partially open building with h &gt; 60 ft ( h &gt; 18.3 m)].

Step 1: Determine risk category; see Table 1.5-1.

Step 2: Determine the basic wind speed, V , for applicable risk category; see Figure 26.5-1.

Step 3: Determine wind load parameters:

- Wind directionality factor, Kd ; see Section 26.6 and Table 26.6-1.
- Exposure Category B, C, or D; see Section 26.7.
- Topographic factor.
- Kzt ; see Section 26.8 and Figure 26.8-1.
- Ground elevation factor, Ke ; see Section 26.9 and Table 26.9-1.
- Enclosure classi fi cation; see Section 26.12.
- Internal pressure coef fi cient, GCpi ; see Section 26.13 and Table 26.13-1.

Step 4: Determine velocity pressure exposure coef fi cient, Kz or Kh ; see Table 26.10-1.

Step 5: Determine velocity pressure, qh , Equation (26.10-1).

Step 6: Determine external pressure coef fi cient ( GCp ):

- Walls and fl at roofs ( θ &lt; 10 °); see Figure 30.4-1.
- Gable and hip roofs; see Figure 30.3-2 per Note 6 of Figure 30.4-1.
- Arched roofs; see Figure 30.3-8.
- Domed roofs; see Figure 30.3-7.
- Bottom horizontal surface of elevated buildings; see Section 30.4.2.1.

Step 7: Calculate wind pressure, p , Equation (30.4-1).

where q = qz For windward walls calculated at height z above the ground;

q = qh For leeward walls, sidewalls, and roofs evaluated at height h ;

Kd = Wind directionality factor, see Section 26.6;

- qi = qh For windward walls, sidewalls, leeward walls, and roofs of enclosed and partially open buildings and for negative internal pressure evaluation in partially enclosed buildings;

0.2h-

.8

(3

ĐIO,

2

DO

+0.8

+1.0

(0.1)

3

10

PLAN

10

20

(0.9) (19)

0.6h +

100

Roof co éo:

,DIO

0.6h

50

100 200

(4.6) (9.3) (18.6)

Effective Wind Area, ft °(m3)

<!-- image -->

100

Overhang

h

100 200

(9.3) (18.6)

500 1000

<!-- image -->

(46.5) (929)

Effective Wind Area, ft °(m3)

<!-- image -->

- area A , ft 2  (m 2 ).

Figure 30.3-2A. Components and cladding [ h ≤ 60 ft ( h ≤ 18.3 m)]: external pressure coefficients ( GCp ) for enclosed, partially enclosed, and partially open buildings -gable roofs, θ ≤ 7°.

10

Diagrams

Notation

<!-- image -->

Diagrams

Notation a = 10% of least horizontal dimension or 0.4h, whichever is smaller, but not less than either 4% of least horizontal

dimension or 3 ft (0.9 m). If an overhang exists, the edge distance shall be measured from the outside edge of the overhang. The horizontal dimensions used to compute the edge distance shall not include any overhang dimensions.

+3271

10ĐI

<!-- image -->

B = Horizontal dimension of building measured normal to wind direction, ft (m).

- h = Mean roof height, in ft (m), except that eave height shall be used for 0 ≤ 10°. 0 = Angle of plane of roof from horizontal, degrees. External Pressure Coefficients (GC,)
- -3.2
- -3.0 -2.8 -

## -2.6 - -25 : -2.4

-2.0

-1.8 -

8.20

-1.6 --1.5

-1.4 -

-1.2

Coefficients

-1.0

-0.8

-0.6

-0.4

-0.2

External Pressure

0.0

+0.2

+0.6

+0.4 -

+0.8

+0 -

Notes

1. Vertical scale denotes (GCp) to be used with 9h*

2. Horizontal scale denotes effective wind area A, ft? (m2).

. Plus and minus signs signify pressures acting toward and away from the surfaces, respectively

<!-- image -->

5. Values of (GCp) for roof overhangs to be determined in accordance with Section 30.7 Roof Overhangs.

. Each component shall be designed for maximum positive and negative pressure:

Figure 30.3-2C. Components and cladding [ h ≤ 60 ft ( h ≤ 18.3 m)]: external pressure coefficients, ( GCp ), for enclosed, partially enclosed, and partially open buildings -gable roofs, 20° &lt; θ ≤ 27°.

·

<!-- image -->

Diagrams

Notation a = 10% of least horizontal dimension or 0.4h, whichever is smaller, but not less than either 4% of least horizontal

overhang. The horizontal dimensions used to compute the edge distance shall not include any overhang dimensions.

dimension or 3 ft (0.9 m). If an overhang exists, the edge distance shall be measured from the outside edge of the

B = Horizontal dimension of building measured normal to wind direction, ft (m).

- h = Mean roof height, in ft (m), except that eave height shall be used for 0 ≤ 10°. 0 = Angle of plane of roof from horizontal, degrees. External Pressure Coefficients (GC,)
- -2.8 -
- -2.6 - -25

-2.4

## -2.2 -

-2.0

8. 18.

-1.4

icients

-1.2

8.10

Pre

-0.6

+0.2

+0.4

+0.6 -

+0.8 - 409 000

1

+1.0 †

(0.1)

Notes

1. Vertical scale denotes (GCp) to be used with ah

3. Plus and minus signs signify pressures acting toward and away from the surfaces, respectively.

<!-- image -->

2. Horizontal scale denotes effective wind area A, ft- (m2).

4. Each component shall be designed for maximum positive and negative pressures.

5. Values of (GCp) for roof overhangs to be determined in accordance with Section 30.7 Roof Overhangs.

Figure 30.3-2D. Components and cladding [ h ≤ 60 ft ( h ≤ 18.3 m)]: external pressure coefficients, ( GCp ), for enclosed, partially enclosed, and partially open buildings -gable roofs, 27° &lt; θ ≤ 45°.

*a, tat

PLAN VIEW

B

ELEVATION VIEW

h

Diagrams

Notation a = 10% of least horizontal dimension or 0.4h, whichever is smaller, but not less than either 4% of least horizontal

overhang. The horizontal dimensions used to compute the edge distance shall not include any overhang dimensions.

pay

<!-- image -->

dimension or 3 ft (0.9 m). If an overhang exists, the edge distance shall be measured from the outside edge of the

B = Horizontal dimension of building measured normal to wind direction, ft (m).

- h = Mean roof height, in ft (m), except that eave height shall be used for 0 ≤ 10°. 0 = Angle of plane of roof from horizontal, degrees. External Pressure Coefficients (GC,)
- -2.8
- -2.6 -2.4

## -2.2

-2.0

-1.

-1.6

-1.4

-1.2

{-0.6

₴ -0.4

-0.2

Exter

0.0

+0.2

+0.4 -

+0.6 - +0.7 O03

+0.8

+1.0

(0.1)

1

Notes

1. Vertical scale denotes (GCp) to be used with 9h

<!-- image -->

2. Horizontal scale denotes effective wind area A, ft- (m2).

Figure 30.3-2E. Components and cladding [ h ≤ 60 ft ( h ≤ 18.3 m)]: external pressure coefficients, ( GCp ), for enclosed and partially enclosed, and partially open buildings -hip roofs, 7° &lt; θ ≤ 20°.

c,)

1°

h

ELEVATION VIEW

<!-- image -->

Diagrams

Notation a = 10% of least horizontal dimension or 0.4h, whichever is smaller, but not less than either 4% of least horizontal

dimension or 3 ft (0.9 m). If an overhang exists, the edge distance shall be measured from the outside edge of the overhang. The horizontal dimensions used to compute the edge distance shall not include any overhang dimensions.

B = Horizontal dimension of building measured normal to wind direction, ft (m).

- h = Mean roof height, in ft (m), except that eave height shall be used for 0 ≤ 10°. 0 = Angle of plane of roof from horizontal, degrees. External Pressure Coefficients (GC,)
- -2.2 -
- -20

## -1.8 -1.6 -

J*-1.4

2-1.0

₴ -12

8 03 -

-0.4

Extemal

-0.2

0.0 -

+0.2

+0.4

+0.6 - +0.7 000

+0.8 -

+1.0 -

Notes

1. Vertical scale denotes (GCp) to be used with h

3. Plus and minus signs signify pressures acting toward and away from the surfaces, respectively.

<!-- image -->

2. Horizontal scale denotes effective wind area A, ft~ (m2).

4. Each component shall be designed for maximum positive and negative pressures.

5. Values of (GCp) for roof overhangs to be determined in accordance with Section 30.7 Roof Overhangs.

Figure 30.3-2F. Components and cladding [ h ≤ 60 ft ( h ≤ 18.3 m)]: external pressure coefficients, ( GCp ), for enclosed, partially enclosed, and partially open buildings -hip roofs, 20° &lt; θ ≤ 27°.

PLAN VIEW

B

ELEVATION VIEW

Diagrams

Notation a = 10% of least horizontal dimension or 0.4h, whichever is smaller, but not less than either 4% of least horizontal

dimension or 3 ft (0.9 m). If an overhang exists, the edge distance shall be measured from the outside edge of the overhang. The horizontal dimensions used to compute the edge distance shall not include any overhang dimensions.

pay

<!-- image -->

B= Horizontal dimension of building measured normal to wind direction, ft (m).

- h = Mean roof height, in ft (m), except that eave height shall be used for 0 ≤ 10°. 0 = Angle of plane of roof from horizontal, degrees. External Pressure Coefficients (GC,)
- -2.6
- -2.4

-22

## -2.0

-1.8

-1.6 - -15

-1.4

-1.2

-1.0

-0.8

-0.6 -

-0.4

-0.2

0.0

External Pressure Coefficients (GC,)

+0.2

+0.4

+0.6 - +0.7

+0.8

+1.0 ÷

1

(0.1)

Notes

1. Vertical scale denotes (GCp) to be used with 9h

2. Horizontal scale denotes effective wind area A, ft~ (m~).

3. Plus and minus signs signify pressures acting toward and away from the surfaces, respectively.

4. Each component shall be designed for maximum positive and negative pressures.

<!-- image -->

5. Values of (GCp) for roof overhangs to be determined in accordance with Section 30.7 Roof Overhangs.

6. For roof slopes 27° &lt; 0, &lt; 45°, interpolate the (GCp) coefficients from Figures 30.3-2F and 30.3-2G, for each zone of interest. Use the
2. following interpolation formula: [GCp(2G) - GCp(2F)]*(0, - 27º)
+ GCp(2F) (45°-279)

Figure 30.3-2G. Components and cladding [ h ≤ 60 ft ( h ≤ 18.3 m)] external pressure coefficients, ( GCp ), for enclosed, partially enclosed, and partially open buildings -hip roofs, θ = 45°.

ELEVATION VIEW

<!-- image -->

iagrams

0.6h

0.6h

(3

0.6/-

-0.6h 1

3

0.6h

h

Figure 30.3-3. Components and cladding [ h ≤ 60 ft ( h ≤ 18.3 m)]: external pressure coefficients, ( GCp ), for enclosed, partially enclosed, and partially open buildings, θ ≤ 7° -stepped roofs.

<!-- image -->

0.6h

(3

-3.0

-2.8

·2.6

-2.4

·2.2

-2.0

-1.8

·1.6

-1.4

-1.2

-1.0

0.8

ELEVATION OF BUILDING

(2 or More Spans)

-0.6

-0.4

-0.2

0

+0.2

+0.4

+0.6

00a0

+0.8

1

(0.1)

10

20

50 100 200

+0.4

+0.6

11149441

o, o 00,e0

ĐI

-0.6

PLAN AND ELEVATION OF

A SINGLE SPAN MODULE

+0.4

+0.6

External Pressure Coefficient, (GCp)

500 1000

(0.9) (1.9)

(4.6) (9.3) (18.6)

(46.5) (92.9)

Effective Wind Area, ft' (m})

+0.8

+1.0

00&amp;0

+1.2

1

10 20

(0.1)

(0.9) (1.9)

50 100 200

·2.6

2.5

-2.0

·1.7

-1.1

+0.8

+1.0

500 1000

(4.6) (9.3) (18.6)

(46.5) (92.9)

(m')

Effective Wind Area, 1t2

Figure 30.3-4. Components and cladding [ h ≤ 60 ft ( h ≤ 18.3 m)]: external pressure coefficients, ( GCp ), for enclosed, partially enclosed, partially open buildings -multispan gable roofs.

<!-- image -->

(2

10

100

10° &lt; A ≤ 30°

10

100

30° &lt; ( ≤ 45°

-3.0

-2.8

-2.6

-2.4

-2.2

-2.

.0.

-1

.8

-1

.6

-1.4

-1.2

-1.0

-0.8

-0.6

-0.4

-0.2

0

+0.2

+0.4

+0.6

1

(0.1)

10

100

1 201

·2.6

Figure 30.3-5A. Components and cladding [ h ≤ 60 ft ( h ≤ 18.3 m)]: external pressure coefficients, ( GCp ), for enclosed, partially enclosed, and partially open buildings -monoslope roofs, 3° &lt; θ ≤ 10°.

<!-- image -->

-0.2

0

+0.2

+0.4

ALL ZONES

+0.6

1

(0.1)

10

PLAN

10 20

50 100 200 500 1000

(0.9) 119) (46) (93) (18.6) (46.5) (92.9)

Effective Wind Area, it' (m)

100

-2.9

-2.0

-1.6

12

-1.7

W

ELEVATION

Figure 30.3-5B. Components and cladding [ h ≤ 60 ft ( h ≤ 18.3 m)]: external pressure coefficients, ( GCp ), for enclosed, partially enclosed, and partially open buildings -monoslope roofs, 10° &lt; θ ≤ 30°.

<!-- image -->

4.4

-4.2

-4.0

-3.8

-3.6

(3(SPANS (SPANS B,C/D)

ot

PLAN

10

20

(0.9) (1.9)

- Effective Wind Area, it' (m?)

-4.1

·3.7

Figure 30.3-6. Components and cladding [ h ≤ 60 ft ( h ≤ 18.3 m)]: external pressure coefficients, ( GCp ), for enclosed, partially enclosed, and partially open buildings -sawtooth roofs.

<!-- image -->

0

+1.0

+1.2

+1.4

1

(0.1)

10

- (SPAN A)

100

500

Wind,

D

ET EVATION

Wind

Figure 30.3-7. Components and cladding (all heights): external pressure coefficients, ( GCp ), for enclosed, partially enclosed, and partially open buildings and structures -domed roofs.

<!-- image -->

- qi = qz For positive internal pressure evaluation in partially enclosed buildings where height z is de fi ned as the level of the highest opening in the building that could affect the positive internal pressure. For positive internal pressure evaluation, qi may conservatively be evaluated at height h ð qi = qh Þ ;

( GCp ) = External pressure coef fi cients given in

- Figure 30.4-1 for walls and fl at roofs,
- Figure 30.3-8 for arched roofs,
- Figure 30.3-7 for domed roofs,
- Note 6 of Figure 30.4-1 for other roof angles and geometries; and
- Figure 30.4-1 for bottom surfaces of elevated buildings.

( GCpi ) = Internal pressure coef fi cient given in Table 26.13-1.

q and qi shall be evaluated using exposure as de fi ned in Section 26.7.3.

30.4.2.1 Bottom Horizontal Surface of Elevated Buildings Design wind pressures for C&amp;C elements on the bottom fl at horizontal surface of elevated buildings shall be determined using the roof pressure coef fi cients from Figure 30.4-1 with the following modi fi cations:

1. The velocity pressure, q , used in Equation 30.4-1 shall be calculated at a height equal to the height above grade of the bottom horizontal surface plus 25% of the height of the elevated building above the horizontal bottom surface, calculated as [ hB + 0.25( h -hB )]. For elevated
2. buildings with a fl at bottom horizontal building surface and situated on a slope, hB shall be taken as the maximum height between the slope and the bottom of the elevated building.
2. Areas of the horizontal surface above partially enclosed spaces and areas extending a distance aB perpendicular to walls with plan dimension greater than 4 ft (1.2 m), as shown by the shaded regions in Figure 30.4-1A, shall be designed to resist positive pressures equal to the Zone 4 wall pressures obtained using Figure 30.4-1. The value of aB shall equal 0.4 hB or the width of the wall, whichever is smaller, for determining zone dimensions from Figure 30.4-1A.

The loading convention shall denote downward loading on the bottom surface with negative pressure coef fi cients and upward loading on the bottom surface with positive pressure coef fi cients.

EXCEPTION: In buildings with a mean roof height h greater than 60 ft (18.3 m) and less than 90 ft (27.4 m), Figures 30.3-1 through 30.3-6 shall be permitted to be used if the mean roof height h does not exceed least horizontal dimension.

## PART 3: OPEN BUILDINGS

User Note: Use Part 3 of Chapter 30 for determining wind pressures for C&amp;C of open buildings that have pitched, monoslope, or troughed roofs. These provisions are based on the Directional Procedure with wind pressures calculated from the specified equation applicable to each roof surface.

&amp; ARCH

## Diagrams

<!-- image -->

## Notation

- L = Horizontal dimension of building, ft (m), measured normal to ridge.
- r = Rise-to-span ratio = 'rise'/L.
- h = Roof height as defined in Chapter 26 for roof angle θ .
- Angle of plane of roof from horizontal, in degrees, measured at eave.

## External Pressure Coefficient, GCp

| Conditions                       | Rise-to-Span Ratio, r   | ( GC p )          | ( GC p )    |
|----------------------------------|-------------------------|-------------------|-------------|
|                                  |                         | Zone A            | Zone B      |
| Roof on elevated structure       | 0 < r < 0.2             | -1.08 1.8 r -0.36 | -0.84-1.2 r |
|                                  | 0.2 ≤ r < 0.3           | 7.2 r -2.52 -0.6  | -0.84-1.2 r |
|                                  | 0.3 ≤ r ≤ 0.6           | 3.3 r -0.84 -0.6  | -0.84-1.2 r |
| Roof springing from ground level | 0 < r ≤ 0.6             | 1.68 r -0.6       | -0.84-1.2 r |

## Notes

1. At roof perimeter Zone C, use the roof zones (Zone 2 and 3) and external pressure coefficients in Fig. 30.3-2A, B, C, and D with ' θ ' based on springline slope. In the case of Fig. 30.3-2A, use 0.6h as the size of the roof perimeter Zone C. For roof Zones A and B, use external pressure coefficients shown in this table.
2. Plus and minus signs signify pressures acting toward and away from the surfaces, respectively.
3. Where multiple values of ( GC p ) are listed, the roof zone is subjected to either positive or negative pressures and the structure shall be designed for all conditions.

Figure 30.3-8. Components and cladding (all heights): external pressure coefficients, ( GCp ), for enclosed, partially enclosed, and partially open buildings and structures -arched roofs.

Note

, SPRINGLINE

C'A

&amp; ARCH

C

B

Note 1

'AC

## 30.5 BUILDING TYPES

The provisions of Section 30.5 are applicable to an open building of all heights that has a pitched free roof, monosloped free roof, or troughed free roof. The steps required for the determination of wind loads on C&amp;C for these building types is shown in Table 30.5-1.

30.5.1 Conditions For the determination of the design wind pressures on C&amp;Cs using the provisions of Section 30.5.2, the conditions indicated on the selected fi gure(s) shall be applicable to the building under consideration.

30.5.2 Design Wind Pressures The net design wind pressure for component and cladding elements of open buildings of all heights with monoslope, pitched, and troughed roofs shall be determined by the following equation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where qh = Velocity pressure evaluated at mean roof height h using the exposure as de fi ned in Section 26.7.3 that results in the highest wind loads for any wind direction at the site; and

Kd = Wind directionality factor, see Section 26.6;

G = Gust-effect factor from Section 26.11; and

CN = Net pressure coef fi cient given in

- Figure 30.5-1 for monosloped roof,
- Figure 30.5-2 for pitched roof, and
- Figure 30.5-3 for troughed roof.

Net pressure coef fi cients, CN , include contributions from top and bottom surfaces. All load cases shown for each roof angle shall be investigated. Plus and minus signs signify pressure acting toward and away from the top surface of the roof, respectively.

## PART 4: BUILDING APPURTENANCES, ROOFTOP STRUCTURES AND EQUIPMENT

User Note: Use Part 4 of Chapter 30 for determining wind pressures for C&amp;C on roof overhangs or parapets of buildings. These provisions are based on the Directional Procedure with wind pressures calculated from the specified equation applicable to each roof overhang or parapet surface.

## Table 30.5-1. Steps to Determine C&amp;C Wind Loads for Open Buildings.

Step 1: Determine risk category; see Table 1.5-1.

Step 2: Determine the basic wind speed, V , for applicable risk category; see Figure 26.5-1.

Step 3: Determine wind load parameters:

- Wind directionality factor, Kd , see Section 26.6 and Table 26.6-1.
- Exposure Category B, C, or D; see Section 26.7.
- Topographic factor, Kzt ; see Section 26.8 and Figure 26.8-1.
- Ground elevation factor, Ke ; see Section 26.9 and Table 26.9-1.
- Gust-effect factor, G ; see Section 26.11.

Step 4: Determine velocity pressure exposure coef fi cient, Kz or Kh ; see Table 26.10-1.

Step 5: Determine velocity pressure, qh , Equation (26.10-1).

Step 6: Determine net pressure coef fi cients, CN :

- Monoslope roof; see Figure 30.5-1.
- Pitched roof; see Figure 30.5-2.
- Troughed roof; see Figure 30.5-3.

Step 7: Calculate wind pressure, p , Equation (30.5-1).

## 30.6 PARAPETS

The design wind pressure for C&amp;C elements of parapets for all building types and heights shall be determined from the following equation:

where

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

qp = Velocity pressure evaluated at the top of the parapet; Kd = Wind directionality factor, see Section 26.6; ( GCp ) = External pressure coef fi cient given in

- Figure 30.3-1 for walls with h ≤ 60 ft (18.3 m);
- Figure 30.3-2A -C for fl at roofs, gable roofs, and hip roofs;
- Figure 30.3-3 for stepped roofs;
- Figure 30.3-4 for multispan gable roofs;
- Figure 30.3-5A -B for monoslope roofs;
- Figure 30.3-6 for sawtooth roofs;
- Figure 30.3-7 for domed roofs of all heights;
- Figure 30.4-1 for walls and fl at roofs with h &gt; 60 ft (18.3 m);
- Figure 30.3-8 for arched roofs.

( GCpi ) = Internal pressure coef fi cient from Table 26.13-1, based on the porosity of the parapet envelope.

Two load cases from Figure 30.6-1 shall be considered:

- Load Case A: Windward parapet shall consist of applying the applicable positive wall pressure from Figure 30.3-1 [ h ≤ 60ft ( h ≤ 18.3 m )] or Figure 30.4-1 [ h &gt; 60ft ( h &gt; 18.3 m )] to the

## Table 30.6-1. Steps to Determine C&amp;C Wind Loads for Parapets.

Step 1: Determine risk category of building; see Table 1.5-1.

Step 2: Determine the basic wind speed, V , for applicable risk category; see Figure. 26.5-1.

Step 3: Determine wind load parameters:

- Wind directionality factor, Kd ; see Section 26.6 and Table 26.6-1.
- Exposure Category B, C, or D; see Section 26.7.
- Topographic factor, Kzt ; see Section 26.8 and Figure 26.8-1.
- Ground elevation factor, Ke ; see Section 26.9 and Table 26.9-1.
- Enclosure classi fi cation; see Section 26.12.
- Internal pressure coef fi cient ( GCpi ); see Section 26.13 and Table 26.13-1.

Step 4: Determine velocity pressure exposure coef fi cient, Kh , at top of the parapet; see Table 26.10-1.

- Step 5: Determine velocity pressure, qp , at the top of the parapet using Equation (26.10-1).

Step 6: Determine external pressure coef fi cient for wall and roof surfaces adjacent to parapet, ( GCp ):

- Walls with h ≤ 60 ft (18.3 m); see Figure 30.3-1.
- Flat, gable, and hip roofs; see Figure 30.3-2A -I.
- Stepped roofs; see Figure 30.3-3.
- Multispan gable roofs; see Figure 30.3-4.
- Monoslope roofs; see Figure 30.3-5A -B.
- Sawtooth roofs; see Figure 30.3-6.
- Domed roofs of all heights; see Figure 30.3-7.
- Walls and fl at roofs with h &gt; 60 ft ( h &gt; 18 . 3 m ); see Figure 30.4-1.
- Arched roofs; see Figure 30.3-8.

Step 7: Calculate wind pressure, p , using Equation (30.6-1) on windward and leeward face of parapet, considering two load cases (Case A and Case B) as shown in Figure 30.6-1.

do is co

-1.4

-1.2

-1.0

-0.8

-0.6

-0.4

-0.

ROOF PLAN

· is

+0.2

+0.4

+0.6

+0.8

+1.0

2a

Figure 30.4-1. Components and cladding, part 2 [ h &gt; 60ft ( h &gt; 18.3 m )]: external pressure coefficients, ( GCp ), for enclosed, partially enclosed, partially open buildings -walls and roofs.

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

10

20

500

Effective Wind Area, it° (m'°)

-3.2

2a

Figure 30.4-1A. Components and cladding, part 3 [ h &gt; 60 ft ( h &gt; 18.3 m)]: external pressure coefficient zones for enclosed, partially enclosed, and partially open elevated buildings with partially enclosed spaces and areas beneath the elevated building -bottom horizontal surface of elevated buildings.

<!-- image -->

windward surface of the parapet while applying the applicable negative edge or corner zone roof pressure from Figures 30.32A, B, or C, 30.3-3, 30.3-4, 30.3-5A or B, 30.3-6, 30.3-7, Figure 30.3-8, or Figure 30.4-1 [ h &gt; 60ft ( h &gt; 18.3 m )] as applicable to the leeward surface of the parapet.

- Load Case B: Leeward parapet shall consist of applying the applicable positive wall pressure from Figure 30.3-1 [ h ≤ 60ft ( h ≤ 18.3 m )] or Figure 30.4-1 [ h &gt; 60ft ( h &gt; 18.3 m )] to the windward surface of the parapet, and applying the applicable negative wall pressure from Figure 30.3-1 [ h ≤ 60ft ( h ≤ 18.3 m )] or Figure 30.4-1 [ h &gt; 60ft ( h &gt; 18.3 m )] as applicable to the leeward surface. Edge and corner zones shall be arranged as shown in the applicable fi gures. ( GCp ) shall be determined for appropriate roof angle and effective wind area from the applicable fi gures.

If internal pressure is present, both load cases should be evaluated under positive and negative internal pressure.

The steps required for the determination of wind loads on component and cladding of parapets are shown in Table 30.6-1.

## 30.7 ROOF OVERHANGS

The design wind pressure for roof overhangs of enclosed, partially enclosed, and partially open buildings of all heights shall be determined from the following equation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where qh = Velocity pressure from Section 26.10 evaluated at mean roof height h using exposure de fi ned in Section 26.7.3;

Kd = Wind directionality factor; see Section 26.6;

- ( GCp ) = External pressure coef fi cient at the overhang, ( GCp ), given in Figure 30.3-2A for gable roofs θ ≤ 7° [ h ≤ 60 ft (18.3 m)], or calculated as the sum of the GCp of the overhang ' s top and bottom surfaces determined by the applicable roof and wall external pressure coef fi cient GCp fi gures. The GCp of the overhang ' s top surface is the same as the applicable roof surface ' s GCp ; the GCp of the overhang ' s bottom surface is the same as the adjacent wall ' s GCp , adjusted for effective wind area.

( GCpi ) = Internal pressure coef fi cient given in Table 26.13-1.

The steps required for the determination of wind loads on C&amp;C of roof overhangs are shown in Table 30.7-1.

3

2

L

PLAN

L

Figure 30.5-1. Components and cladding (0.25 ≤ h ∕ L ≤ 1.0): net pressure coefficient, C N , for open buildings -monoslope free roofs, θ ≤ 45°.

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

## 3

h

3

2

1

a

a

1

23

3 2 1

## ТИТТІТТ

PI.AN

2|3

<!-- image -->

L

L

L

a

3

2

L

1

1

DI A\1

Figure 30.5-3. Components and cladding (0.25 ≤ h ∕ L ≤ 1.0): net pressure coefficient, C N , for open buildings -troughed free roofs, θ ≤ 45°.

<!-- image -->

2

3

a

a

L

123

a

a

P1

ps

Windward parapet

Load Case A

p2

Leeward parapet

Load Case B

P3

Top of parapet

P4

Figure 30.6-1. Components and cladding, part 4 (all building heights): parapet wind loads for all building types -parapet wind loads.

<!-- image -->

## Table 30.7-1. Steps to Determine C&amp;C Wind Loads for Roof Overhangs.

Step 1: Determine risk category of building; see Table 1.5-1.

- Step 2: Determine the basic wind speed, V , for applicable risk category; see Fig. 26.5-1.

Step 3: Determine wind load parameters:

- Wind directionality factor, Kd ; see Section 26.6 and Table 26.6-1.
- Exposure Category B, C, or D; see Section 26.7.
- Topographic factor, Kzt ; see Section 26.8 and Figure 26.8-1.
- Ground elevation factor, Ke ; see Section 26.9 and Table 26.9-1.
- Enclosure classi fi cation; see Section 26.12.
- Internal pressure coef fi cient ( GCpi ); see Section 26.13 and Table 26.13-1.

Step 4: Determine velocity pressure exposure coef fi cient, Kh ; see Table 26.10-1.

Step 5: Determine velocity pressure, qh , at mean roof height h using Equation (26.10-1).

continues

## Table 30.7-1 (Continued) . Steps to Determine C&amp;C Wind Loads for Roof Overhangs.

- Step 6: Determine the external pressure coef fi cient ( GCp ) at the overhang, using Figure 30.3-2A for gable roofs θ ≤ 7° [ h ≤ 60 ft (18.3 m)], or calculated as the sum of the GCp coef fi cients on the overhang ' s top and bottom surfaces, as determined by the applicable roof and wall GCp given in fi gures:
- Gable roofs 7° &lt; θ ≤ 45°, hip roofs θ ≤ 45° [ h ≤ 60 ft (18.3 m)]: see Figure 30.3-2B-G.
- Other roofs [ h ≤ 60 ft (18.3 m)]: see Table 30.3-1 Step 6.
- Gable and hip roofs [ h &gt; 60 ft (18.3 m)]: see Figure 30.5-1.
- Flat roofs θ ≤ 7° [ h &gt; 60 ft (18.3 m)]: see Figure 30.5-1.
- Other roofs [ h &gt; 60 ft (18.3 m)]: see Table 30.5-1 Step 6.
- Walls [ h ≤ 60 ft (18.3 m)]: see Figure 30.3-1.
- Walls [ h &gt; 60 ft (18.3 m)]: see Figure 30.5-1.

Step 7: Calculate wind pressure, p , using Equation (30.7-1); refer to Figure 30.7-1.

Figure 30.7-1. Components and cladding (all building heights): wind loading on roof overhangs for all building types -C&amp;C wind loads on roof overhangs.

<!-- image -->

## 30.8 ROOFTOP STRUCTURES AND EQUIPMENT FOR BUILDINGS

The C&amp;C pressure on each wall of the rooftop structure shall be equal to the lateral force determined in accordance with Section 29.4.1 divided by the respective wall surface area of the rooftop structure and shall be considered to act inward and outward. The C&amp;C pressure on the roof shall be equal to the vertical uplift force determined in accordance with Section 29.4.1 divided by the horizontal projected area of the roof of the rooftop structure and shall be considered to act in the upward direction.

## 30.9 ATTACHED CANOPIES ON BUILDINGS

The design wind pressure for canopies attached to the walls of buildings shall be determined from the following equation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

- qh = Velocity pressure from Section 26.10 evaluated at mean roof height h using exposure de fi ned in Section 26.7.3; and

Kd = Wind directionality factor; see Section 26.6; and ( GCp ) = Net pressure coef fi cients for attached canopies given in Figure 30.9-1A -B [buildings with h &lt; 60 ft ( h &lt; 18.3 m)] and 30.9-2A-B [buildings with h &gt; 60 ft ( h &gt; 18.3 m)] for contributions from both upper and lower surfaces individually and their combined (net) effect on attached canopies.

The steps required for the determination of wind loads on attached canopies are shown in Table 30.9-1.

## EXCEPTIONS :

1. As an alternative to using the ( GCp ) value from Figure 30.9-2A for buildings with a mean roof height
2. between 60 ft (18.3 m) and 90 ft (27.4 m), the value of GCp may be linearly interpolated between the value for a mean roof height of 60 ft (18.3 m) from Figure 30.9-1A and the value for a mean roof height of 90 ft (27.4 m) from Figure 30.9-2A for each speci fi c hc / he of the attached canopy.
2. As an alternative to using the ( GCpn ) value from Figure 30.9-2B for buildings with a mean roof height between 60 ft (18.3 m) and 90 ft (27.4 m), the value of GCpn may be linearly interpolated between the value for a mean roof height of 60 ft (18.3 m) from Figure 30.9-1B and the value for a mean roof height of 90 ft (27.4 m) from Figure 30.9-2B for each speci fi c hc / he of the attached canopy.

## Table 30.9-1. Steps to Determine C&amp;C Wind Loads on Attached Canopies.

Step 1: Determine risk category of building; see Table 1.5-1.

Step 2: Determine the basic wind speed, V , for applicable risk category; see Figure 26.5-1.

Step 3: Determine wind load parameters:

- Wind directionality factor, Kd ; see Section 26.6 and Table 26.61.
- Exposure category B, C, or D; see Section 26.7.
- Topographic factor, Kzt ; see Section 26.8 and Figure 26.8-1.
- Ground elevation factor, Ke ; see Section 26.9 and Table 26.9-1.

Step 4: Determine velocity pressure exposure coef fi cient, Kh ; see Table 26.10-1.

Step 5: Determine velocity pressure, qh , at mean roof height h using Equation (26.10-1).

- Step 6: Determine surface or net pressure coef fi cient ( GCp ) or ( GCpn ) using Figure 30.9-1A-B [buildings with h ≤ 60 ft ( h ≤ 18.3 m)] or Figure 30.9-2A-B [buildings with h &gt; 60 ft ( h &gt; 18.3 m)].

Step 7: Calculate wind pressure, p , using Equation (30.9-1).

1

Figure 30.9-1A. Pressure coefficients on separate surfaces of attached canopies on buildings with h ≤ 60 ft (h ≤ 18.3 m).

<!-- image -->

## PART 5: NONBUILDING STRUCTURES

## 30.10 CIRCULAR BINS, SILOS, AND TANKS WITH h ≤ 120 ft ( h ≤ 36 . 6 m )

Wind pressures on surfaces of isolated circular bins, silos, and tanks shall be calculated from Sections 30.10.1 through 30.10.5.

Grouped circular bins, silos, and tanks of similar size with center-to-center spacing greater than 2 diameters shall be treated as isolated structures. For spacings less than 1.25 diameters, the structures shall be treated as grouped and the wind pressure shall be determined from Section 30.10.6. For intermediate spacings, linear interpolation of the Cp (or Cf ) values shall be used.

The steps required for the determination of wind loads for circular bins, silos, and tanks are shown in Table 30.10-1.

30.10.1 Design Wind Pressure Design wind pressure on C&amp;C for isolated circular bins, silos, and tanks in ð lb ∕ ft 2 Þð N ∕ m 2 Þ shall be determined from the following equation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where

- qh = Velocity pressure for all surfaces evaluated at mean roof height h

Kd = Wind directionality factor; see Section 26.6. ( GCp ) = External pressure coef fi cients given in

- Section 30.10.2 for walls
- Section 30.10.5 for underneath sides
- Section 30.10.4 for roofs

( GCpi ) = Internal pressure coef fi cient given in Table 26.13-1 and Section 30.11.3.

30.10.2 External Walls of Isolated Circular Bins, Silos, and Tanks The external pressures on the walls of circular bins, silos, and tanks shall be determined from the external pressure

## Table 30.10-1. Steps to Determine C&amp;C Wind Loads for Circular Bins, Silos, and Tanks.

Step 1: Determine risk category; see Table 1.5-1.

Step 2: Determine the basic wind speed, V , for applicable risk category; see Figure. 26.5-1.

Step 3: Determine wind load parameters:

- Wind directionality factor, Kd ; see Section 26.6 and Table 26.6-1.
- Exposure Category B, C, or D; see Section 26.7.
- Topographic factor, Kzt ; see Section 26.8 and Figure 26.8-1.
- Ground elevation factor, Ke ; see Section 26.9 and Table 26.9-1.
- Enclosure classi fi cation; see Section 26.12.
- Internal pressure coef fi cient ( GCpi ); see Section 26.13 and Section 30.11.3.

Step 4: Determine velocity pressure exposure coef fi cient, Kz or Kh ; see Table 26.10-1.

Step 5: Determine velocity pressure, qh , Equation (26.10-1).

Step 6: Determine external pressure coef fi cient ( GCp ).

- Walls; see Sections 30.10.2 and 30.10.6.
- Roofs; see Sections 30.10.4 and 30.10.6.

Step 7: Calculate wind pressure, p , using Equation (30.10-1).

ELEVATION

Figure 30.9-1B. Net pressure coefficients considering simultaneous contributions from upper and lower surfaces on attached canopies on buildings with h ≤ 60 ft ( h ≤ 18.3 m).

<!-- image -->

Diagram

Notation

#, = Mean canopy height, ft (m).

i, = Mean cave height, ft (m.

(GC,) " Pressure coeficients.

Notes

Pressure Coefficient

-2.0

Figure 30.9-2A. Pressure coefficients on separate surfaces of attached canopies on buildings with h &gt; 60 ft ( h &gt; 18.3 m).

<!-- image -->

·I.S

Upper Surlace

119

Diagram

Notation

Notes

Net Pressure Coefficient

38

-2.6

Figure 30.9-2B. Net pressure coefficients considering simultaneous contributions from upper and lower surfaces on attached canopies on buildings with h &gt; 60 ft ( h &gt; 18.3 m).

<!-- image -->

0.921,/0,≤1

coef fi cients ( GCp ) as a function of the angle α , given as follows for the shape ranges indicated:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where the cylinder (diameter D ) is standing on the ground or supported by columns giving a clearance height ( C ) less than the height of the cylinder ( H ), as shown in Figure 30.10-1.

H ∕ D is in the range 0.25 to 4.0 inclusive. α = angle from the wind direction to a point on the wall of a circular bin, silo, or tank, in degrees.

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

Figure 30.10-1 lists the external pressure coef fi cients for walls, which include the graphic distribution of the external pressure, GCp ð α Þ , around the perimeter of the wall.

30.10.3 Internal Surface of Exterior Walls of Isolated OpenTopped Circular Bins, Silos, and Tanks The pressures on the internal surface of exterior walls of open-topped circular bins, silos, and tanks shall be determined from Equation (30.10-5):

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

30.10.4 Roofs of Isolated Circular Bins, Silos, and Tanks The external pressures on the roofs or lids of bins, silos, or tanks of circular cross section shall be equal to the external pressure coef fi cients, ( GCp ), given in Figure 30.10-2 for Zones 1, 2, 3, and 4.

Zone 3 is applicable to the windward edges of roofs with slope less than or equal to 30 degrees, and Zone 4 is applicable to the region near the cone apex for roofs with slope greater than 15 degrees. The applicable areas are shown in Figure 30.10-2.

30.10.5 Undersides of Isolated Elevated Circular Bins, Silos, and Tanks ( GCp ) values for the undersides of elevated circular bins, silos, and tanks shall be taken as 1.2 and -0.9 for Zone 3 and 0.8 and -0.6 for Zone 1 and Zone 2, as shown in Figure 30.10-2.

30.10.6 Roofs and Walls of Grouped Circular Bins, Silos, and Tanks Closely spaced groups with center-to-center spacing less than 1.25 D , the external pressures of grouped bins, silos, or tanks, shall be equal to the external pressure coef fi cients, ( GCp ), given in Figure 30.10-3 for Zones 1, 2, 3a, 3b, and 4 for roofs and Figure 30.10-4 for Zones 5a, 5b, 8, and 9 for walls.

## 30.11 ROOFTOP SOLAR PANELS FOR BUILDINGS OF ALL HEIGHTS WITH FLAT ROOFS OR GABLE OR HIP ROOFS WITH SLOPES LESS THAN 7 DEGREES

The design wind pressures for rooftop solar modules and panels shall be determined in accordance with Section 29.4.3 for rooftop solar arrays that conform to the geometric requirements speci fi ed in Section 29.4.3.

## 30.12 ROOF PAVERS FOR BUILDINGS OF ALL HEIGHTS WITH ROOF SLOPES LESS THAN OR EQUAL TO 7 DEGREES

The design net uplift pressures for roof pavers, for buildings of all heights with roof slopes less than or equal to 7 degrees, shall be determined from the following equations:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where

Kd = Wind directionality factor, see Section 26.6

qh = Velocity pressure evaluated at mean height h , as de fi ned in Section 26.10, of the roof on which the pavers are located;

CL net = Design net uplift pressure coef fi cient which shall be taken as

- (a) The value of external pressure coef fi cient, GCp , from Figures 30.3-2A and 30.5-1, or
- (b) Determined by approved wind tunnel tests performed in accordance with Chapter 31, or
- (c) Determined by methods described in the recognized literature.

## 30.13 CONSENSUS STANDARDS AND OTHER REFERENCED DOCUMENTS

No consensus standards and other documents that shall be considered part of this standard are referenced in this chapter.

sure, (CUP (a)" aroune the renterer o

Wind diraction

h H

H

Wind

ELEVATION

RT EVA TION

A D

h/D = 4

h/D = 1

Figure 30.10-1. Components and cladding [ h ≤ 120ft ( h ≤ 36.6 m )]: external pressure coefficients, GCp , for walls of isolated circular bins, silos, and tanks with D &lt; 120 ft (36.6 m) and 0.25 &lt; H ∕ D &lt; 4.0 -other structures.

<!-- image -->

45°

Zone 3

a

LEGEND

a =0.1 D

Wind direction

450

0.2 D

F. zone 4

-

Figure 30.10-2. Components and cladding [ h ≤ 120ft ( h ≤ 36.6 m )]: external pressure coefficients, GCp , for roofs of isolated circular bins, silos, and tanks with D &lt; 120 ft (36.6 m) and 0.25 &lt; H ∕ D &lt; 4.0 -other structures.

<!-- image -->

-2.6

·2.4

·22

.0

·1

.8

-1.6

·1,4

-1.2

.0

-1.

-0.8

-0.6

-0.4

-0.2

0

+0,2

+0.4

+0.6

(0.1)

10

1O!

10

20

(0.9) (1.9)

Effective Wind Area, it' (m)

100

Roof

Figure 30.10-2 ( Continued ). Components and cladding [ h ≤ 120ft ( h ≤ 36.6 m )]: external pressure coefficients, GCp , for roofs of isolated circular bins, silos, and tanks with D &lt; 120 ft (36.6 m) and 0.25 &lt; H ∕ D &lt; 4.0 -other structures.

<!-- image -->

Wind direction

a=0.20

0.10=a/2

Wind direction

272

Roof

-2.1

Figure 30.10-3. Components and cladding [ h ≤ 120ft ( h ≤ 36.6 m )]: external pressure coefficients, GCp , for roofs of grouped circular bins, silos, and tanks with D &lt; 120 ft (36.6 m) and 0.25 &lt; H ∕ D &lt; 4.0 (center-to-center spacing &lt; 1.25 D ) -other structures.

<!-- image -->

60°

External Pressure Coefficient, (GCp)

direction

·2.6

Wind direction

Wind direction

1,4

1

(0.1)

ба

HO.2D.L

10

100

Figure 30.10-4. Components and cladding [ h ≤ 120ft ( h ≤ 36.6 m )]: external pressure coefficients, GCp , for walls of grouped circular bins, silos, and tanks with D &lt; 120 ft (36.6 m) and 0.25 &lt; H ∕ D &lt; 4.0 (center-to-center spacing &lt; 1.25 D ) -other structures.

<!-- image -->