## 32.1 PROCEDURES

32.1.1 Scope Buildings and other structures classi fi ed as Risk Category III or IV and located in the tornado-prone region as shown in Figure 32.1-1, including the main wind force resisting system (MWFRS) and all components and cladding (C&amp;C) thereof, shall be designed and constructed to resist the greater of the tornado loads determined in accordance with the provisions of this chapter or the wind loads determined in accordance with Chapters 26 through 31, using the load combinations provided in Chapter 2.

User Note: The tornado loads speci fi ed in this chapter provide reasonable consistency with the reliability delivered by the existing criteria in Chapters 26 and 27 for MWFRS, and therefore are only required for Risk Category III and IV buildings and other structures (see Return Period discussion in Section C32.5.1 for more information). The tornado loads are based on tornado speeds using 1,700- and 3,000-year return periods for Risk Category III and IV, respectively (which are the same return periods used for basic wind speeds in Chapter 26). The tornado speed at any given geographic location will range from approximately Enhanced Fujita Scale EF0 -EF2 intensity, depending on the risk category and effective plan area of the building or other structure (see Section C32.5.1). Options for protection of life and property from more intense tornadoes include construction of a storm shelter and/or design for longer-return-period tornado speeds as provided in Appendix G, including performance-based design. A building or other structure designed for tornado loads determined exclusively in accordance with Chapter 32 cannot be designated as a storm shelter without meeting additional critical requirements provided in the applicable building code and ICC 500, the ICC/NSSA Standard for the Design and Construction of Storm Shelters . See Commentary Section C32.1.1 for an in-depth discussion on storm shelters.

32.1.2 Permitted Procedures The design tornado loads for buildings and other structures, including the MWFRS and C&amp;C elements thereof, shall be determined using one of the procedures as speci fi ed in this section and subject to the applicable limitations of Chapters 26 through 32, excluding Chapter 28.

An outline of the overall process for the determination of the tornado loads, including section references, is provided in Figure 32.1-3.

32.1.2.1 Tornado Loads on the Main Wind Force Resisting System Tornado loads for the MWFRS shall be determined using one or more of the following procedures, as modi fi ed by Chapter 32:

## CHAPTER 32 TORNADO LOADS

1. Directional Procedure for buildings of all heights as specifi ed in Chapter 27 for buildings meeting the requirements speci fi ed therein;
2. Directional Procedure for Building Appurtenances (such as rooftop structures and rooftop equipment) and Other Structures (such as solid freestanding walls and solid freestanding signs, chimneys, tanks, open signs, single-plane open frames, and trussed towers) as speci fi ed in Chapter 29 for buildings meeting the requirements speci fi ed therein; or
3. Wind Tunnel Procedure for all buildings and all other structures as speci fi ed in Chapter 31 for buildings meeting the requirements speci fi ed therein.

32.1.2.2 Tornado Loads on Components and Cladding Tornado loads on the C&amp;C of all buildings and other structures shall be determined using one or more of the following procedures, as modi fi ed by Chapter 32:

1. Analytical Procedures as speci fi ed in Parts 1 through 5, as appropriate, of Chapter 30, for buildings or other structures meeting the requirements speci fi ed therein; or
2. Wind Tunnel Procedure for all buildings and other structures as speci fi ed in Chapter 31, for buildings meeting the requirements speci fi ed therein.

32.1.3 Performance-Based Procedures Tornado design of buildings and other structures using performance-based procedures shall be permitted subject to the approval of the Authority Having Jurisdiction. The performance-based tornado design procedures used shall, at a minimum, conform to Section 1.3.1.3 and be documented and submitted to the Authority Having Jurisdiction in accordance with Section 1.3.1.3.

## 32.2 DEFINITIONS

The following de fi nitions apply to the provisions of Chapter 32. Terms not de fi ned in this chapter shall be de fi ned in accordance with Chapters 26 through 31, as appropriate, excluding Chapter 28.

ASCETORNADODESIGNGEODATABASE: The ASCE database (version 2022-1.0) of geocoded tornado speed design data.

OTHER STRUCTURES, SEALED: A structure that is completely sealed or has controlled ventilation such that tornado-induced atmospheric pressure changes will not be transmitted to the inside of the structure, including but not limited to certain tanks and vessels.

TORNADO-PRONE REGION: The area of the conterminous United States most vulnerable to tornadoes, as shown in Figure 32.1-1.

Tornado-prone region

Areas outside tornado-prone region

## 32.3 SYMBOLS AND NOTATION

The following symbols apply only to the provisions of Chapter 32. Symbols and notations not de fi ned in this chapter shall be de fi ned in accordance with Chapters 26 through 31, as appropriate, excluding Chapter 28.

- Ae = Effective plan area of the building, other structure, or facility, ft 2 (m 2 ), as de fi ned in Section 32.5.4
- FhT = Lateral design tornado force for rooftop structures and equipment from Equation (32.16-3), lb (N)
- FT = Design tornado force for certain other structures from Equation (32.16-2), lb (N)
- FvT = Vertical design tornado force for rooftop structures and equipment from Equation (32.16-4), lb (N)
- GT = Tornado gust-effect factor as de fi ned in Section 32.11 ð GCpiT Þ = Product of internal pressure coef fi cient that includes the effects of atmospheric pressure change and gusteffect factor, to be used in determination of tornado loads for buildings and some other structures, as determined in Section 32.13
- KdT = Tornado directionality factor as de fi ned in Section 32.6
- KhTor = Tornado velocity pressure exposure coef fi cient evaluated at height z = h, as determined in Section 32.10
- KvT = Tornado pressure coef fi cient adjustment factor for vertical winds as de fi ned in Section 32.14
- KzTor = Tornado velocity pressure exposure coef fi cient evaluated at height z, as determined in Section 32.10
- ppT = Combined net tornado design pressure on a parapet from Equation (32.15-3), lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 )
- pT = Design tornado pressure to be used in determination of tornado loads for buildings and for certain other structures, lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 )
- qhT = Tornado velocity pressure evaluated at height z = h , lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 )
- qpT = Tornado velocity pressure evaluated at top of parapet from Equations (32.15-3) and (32.17-4), lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 )
- qzop = Tornado velocity pressure internal pressure determination for partially enclosed buildings, lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 )
- qzT = Tornado velocity pressure evaluated at height z above ground, lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 )
- VT = Tornado speed obtained from Figures 32.5-1 and 32.52, mi ∕ h (m ∕ s). The tornado speed corresponds to a 3 s gust speed at 33 ft (10 m) above the ground.
- zop = Level of the lowest opening in the building that could affect the positive internal pressure, lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 )

Figure 32.1-1. Tornado-prone region.

<!-- image -->

## 32.4 GENERAL

- 32.4.1 Sign Convention The combined effects of internal pressures and atmospheric pressure change, expressed in coef fi cient form by ( GC piT ), shall follow the same sign convention as provided in Section 26.4, where positive pressure acts toward the surface and negative pressure acts away from the surface.
- 32.4.2 Critical Load Condition Values of external pressures shall be combined algebraically with the combined effects of internal pressures and atmospheric pressure change to determine the most critical load.

## 32.5 TORNADO HAZARD MAPS

32.5.1 Tornado Speed The tornado speed, VT , used in the determination of tornado loads on buildings and other structures shall be determined from Figures 32.5-1 and 32.5-2 as follows:

1. For Risk Category III buildings and structures, use Figures 32.5-1A through 32.5-1H.

Figure 32.1-2. Flowchart of process for determining when design for tornado loads is required.

<!-- image -->

Figure 32.1-3. Outline of process for determining tornado loads.

<!-- image -->

2. For Risk Category IV buildings and structures, use Figures 32.5-2A through 32.5-2H.

To select the appropriate tornado hazard map to use for the assigned risk category, the effective plan area, Ae , of the building, other structure, or facility, shall be determined in accordance with Section 32.5.4 and shall be rounded up to next available mapped Ae , including 1; 2,000; 10,000; 40,000; 100,000; 250,000; 1,000,000; and 4,000,000 ft 2 (0.1; 186; 929; 3,716; 9,290; 23,226; 92,903; and 371,612 m 2 ). Alternatively, linear interpolation of tornado speed between maps using the logarithm of the effective plan area size is permitted.

Alternatively, it shall be permitted to use the tornado speeds from the ASCE Tornado Design Geodatabase. The ASCE Tornado Design Geodatabase is available at the ASCE 7 Hazard Tool (https://asce7hazardtool.online) or approved equivalent.

- 32.5.2 Design for Tornado Loads Not Required For Risk Category III and IV buildings and other structures determined to have tornado speeds VT &lt; 60 mi/h (26.8 m/s), design for tornado loads shall not be required. Where VT ≥ 60 mi/h (26.8 m/ s) but is less than the following threshold speeds then design for tornado loads shall not be required:
1. For Exposure B: VT &lt; 0.5 V , or
3. For Exposure D: VT &lt; 0.67 V ,
2. For Exposure C: VT &lt; 0.6 V , or

where V is the basic wind speed determined in accordance with Section 26.5 and the exposure category is determined in accordance with Section 26.7.3, based on the exposure resulting in the greatest wind loads for any wind direction at the site.

- 32.5.3 Direction of Tornadic Wind The tornadic wind shall be assumed to come from any horizontal direction.
- 32.5.4 Effective Plan Area The effective plan area, Ae , of the building or other structure shall be determined in accordance with this section.
- 32.5.4.1 Essential Facilities For Essential Facilities and buildings and other structures required to maintain the functionality of Essential Facilities, the effective plan area shall be equal to the area of the smallest convex polygon enclosing both the Essential Facility and all of the buildings and other structures that maintain the functionality of the Essential Facility.
- 32.5.4.2 Other than Essential Facilities For buildings and structures that are not designated as Essential Facilities and are not required to maintain the functionality of Essential Facilities, the effective plan area shall be equal to the area of the smallest convex polygon enclosing the plan of the building, other structure, or facility. It is permitted to reduce the effective plan area to that of the effective plan area of the largest structurally independent building or other structure, which does not share structural components with adjacent buildings or other structures.
- 32.5.4.3 Ground-Mounted Photovoltaic Panel Systems The effective plan area, Ae, of ground-mounted photovoltaic

panel systems shall be equal to the effective plan area of the largest structurally independent photovoltaic support structure that does not share structural components with other adjacent structures.

## 32.6 TORNADO DIRECTIONALITY FACTOR

The tornado directionality factor, KdT , shall be determined from Table 32.6-1 and shall be used to determine the tornado loads in accordance with Sections 32.15 through 32.17.

## 32.7 TORNADO EXPOSURE

Tornado velocity pressure exposure coef fi cients KzTor and KhTor are determined in Section 32.10.1. Exposure requirements in Section 26.7 shall not apply to the determination of KzTor and KhTor .

## 32.8 TOPOGRAPHIC FACTOR

Tornado velocity pressures qzT and qhT are determined in Section 32.10.2. Topographic speedup effects in Section 26.8 shall not apply to the determination of qzT and qhT .

## 32.9 GROUND ELEVATION FACTOR

The ground elevation factor to adjust for air density, Ke , shall be determined in accordance with Section 26.9 and shall be used to determine the tornado velocity pressure in accordance with Section 32.10.2.

## 32.10 TORNADO VELOCITY PRESSURE

32.10.1 Tornado Velocity Pressure Exposure Coef fi cient A tornado velocity pressure exposure coef fi cient, KzTor or KhTor , as applicable, shall be determined from Table 32.10-1.

32.10.2 Tornado Velocity Pressure Tornado velocity pressure, qzT , evaluated at height z above ground, shall be determined in accordance with the following equation:

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where

KzTor = Tornado velocity pressure exposure coef fi cient, see Section 32.10.1;

Ke = Ground elevation factor, see Section 32.9;

VT = Tornado speed, see Section 32.5; and qzT = Tornado velocity pressure at height z .

The velocity pressure at mean roof height shall be computed as qhT = qzT evaluated from Equation (32.10-1) using KzTor at mean roof height h .

## 32.11 TORNADO GUST EFFECTS

32.11.1 Tornado Gust-Effect Factor The tornado gust-effect factor, GT , for a building or other structure shall be 0.85 or calculated from Equation (26.11-6) using Exposure C terrain exposure constants.

32.11.2 Limitations Where the combined gust-effect factors and pressure coef fi cients ( GCp ), ( GCpiT ), and ( GCpf ) are given in fi gures and tables, the gust-effect factor shall not be determined separately.

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

## 32.12 TORNADO ENCLOSURE CLASSIFICATION

32.12.1 General For the purpose of determining internal pressure coef fi cients for tornadoes, buildings and other structures for which tornado internal pressure coef fi cients, ( GCpiT ), apply shall have an enclosure classi fi cation assigned in accordance with this section. If a building or other structure satis fi es both the ' open ' and ' partially enclosed ' tornado enclosure classi fi cation de fi nitions, it shall be classi fi ed as a ' partially open ' building or other structure.

32.12.2 Openings To assign the tornado enclosure classi fi cation, the amount of openings in the building envelope shall be determined by taking each wall of the building or other structure, assuming it functions as the windward wall, and summing the total area of openings present with respect to the area of the remaining building envelope. Buildings shall be classi fi ed as enclosed, partially enclosed, partially open, or open as de fi ned in Section 26.2. Other structures shall be classi fi ed as sealed, as de fi ned in Section 32.2, or enclosed, partially enclosed, partially open, or open as de fi ned in Section 26.2.

Where not required by Section 32.12.3 to protect glazed openings, enclosed buildings and other structures shall either (1) be reevaluated for classi fi cation as partially enclosed, with all unprotected glazed openings on each assumed windward wall considered as openings; or (2) be protected in accordance with Section 32.12.3.1.

32.12.3 Protection of Glazed Openings Glazed openings shall be protected as speci fi ed in this section for Essential Facilities and for buildings and other structures required to maintain the functionality of Essential Facilities.

32.12.3.1 Protection Requirements for Glazed Openings Glazing in buildings requiring protection shall be protected with an impact-protective system or shall be impact-resistant glazing. Impact-protective systems shall be either (a) permanently af fi xed non-operable systems or (b) permanently af fi xed operable systems capable of being fully deployed from inside the building within fi ve minutes and used in buildings that are staffed 24 hours per day.

Impact-protective systems and impact-resistant glazing shall be subjected to missile tests in accordance with ASTM E1996 using missile level D or E as described in Table 2 of ASTM E1996. Testing to demonstrate compliance with ASTM E1996 shall be in accordance with ASTM E1886. Impact-resistant glazing and impact-protective systems shall comply with the pass/fail criteria of Section 7 of ASTM E1996. Glazing in sectional doors, rolling doors, and fl exible doors shall be subjected to missile tests in accordance with ANSI/DASMA 115 as applicable. Glazing and impact-protective systems shall comply with the ' Enhanced Protection ' requirements of Table 3 of ASTM E1996, with tornado speed used in place of basic wind speed for determination of wind zone.

EXCEPTION: Other testing methods and/or performance criteria are permitted to be used where approved.

## 32.13 TORNADO INTERNAL PRESSURE COEFFICIENTS

Tornado internal pressure coef fi cients, ( GCpiT ), shall be determined from Table 32.13-1 based on building and other structure enclosure classi fi cations determined in accordance with Section 32.12.1.

Notes:

1 Moloe er 2 e quet enooda in mi/h ot 22 ft (10 m) chous cround

1. Values are 3 s gust speeds in mi/h at 33 ft (10 m) above ground.

<!-- image -->

Figure 32.5-1A. Tornado speeds for Risk Category III buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 1 ft 2 (0.1 m 2 ).

<!-- image -->

4. Islands, coastal areas, and land boundaries outside the last contour shall use the last tornado speed contour.
5. Tornado speeds correspond to approximately a 3% probability of exceedance in 50 years (annual exceedance probability =0.000588, MRI = 1,700 years).
6. Location-specific tornado speed is permitted to be determined using the ASCE Tornado Design Geodatabase, available at the ASCE 7 Hazard Tool (http://asce7hazardtool.online) or approved equivalent.

Figure 32.5-1A ( Continued ). Tornado speeds for Risk Category III buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 1 ft 2 (0.1 m 2 ).

Notes:

<!-- image -->

Figure 32.5-1B. Tornado speeds for Risk Category III buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 2,000 ft 2 (186 m 2 ).

<!-- image -->

4. Islands, coastal areas, and land boundaries outside the last contour shall use the last tornado speed contour.
5. Tornado speeds correspond to approximately a 3% probability of exceedance in 50 years (annual exceedance probability = 0.000588, MRI = 1,700 years).
6. Location-specific tornado speed is permitted to be determined using the ASCE Tornado Design Geodatabase, available at the ASCE 7 Hazard Tool (http://asce7hazardtool.online) or approved equivalent.

Figure 32.5-1B ( Continued ). Tornado speeds for Risk Category III buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 2,000 ft 2 (186 m 2 ).

Notes:

<!-- image -->

## Notes :

1. Values are 3 s gust speeds in mi/h at 33 ft (10 m) above ground.
2. To convert tornado speeds from mi/h to m/s, multiply mapped values by 0.447.
3. Linear interpolation is permitted between contours. Point values (where shown) are provided to aid with interpolation.

Figure 32.5-1C. Tornado speeds for Risk Category III buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 10,000 ft 2 (929 m 2 ).

<!-- image -->

4. Islands, coastal areas, and land boundaries outside the last contour shall use the last tornado speed contour.
5. Tornado speeds correspond to approximately a 3% probability of exceedance in 50 years (annual exceedance probability = 0.000588, MRI = 1,700 years).

6. Location-specific tornado speed is permitted to be determined using the ASCE Tornado Design Geodatabase, available at the ASCE 7 Hazard Tool (http://asce7hazardtool.online) or approved equivalent.

Figure 32.5-1C ( Continued ). Tornado speeds for Risk Category III buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 10,000 ft 2 (929 m 2 ).

Notes:

<!-- image -->

## Notes :

1. Values are 3 s gust speeds in mi/h at 33 ft (10 m) above ground.

2. To convert tornado speeds from mi/h to m/s, multiply mapped values by 0.447.

3. Linear interpolation is permitted between contours. Point values (where shown) are provided to aid with interpolation.

Figure 32.5-1D. Tornado speeds for Risk Category III buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 40,000 ft 2 (3,716 m 2 ).

<!-- image -->

4. Islands, coastal areas, and land boundaries outside the last contour shall use the last tornado speed contour.
5. Tornado speeds correspond to approximately a 3% probability of exceedance in 50 years (annual exceedance probability = 0.000588, MRI = 1,700 years).
6. Location-specific tornado speed is permitted to be determined using the ASCE Tornado Design Geodatabase, available at the ASCE 7 Hazard Tool (http://asce7hazardtool.online) or approved equivalent.

Figure 32.5-1D ( Continued ). Tornado speeds for Risk Category III buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 40,000 ft 2 (3,716 m 2 ).

Notes:

1. Values are 3 s gust speeds in mi/h at 33 ft (10 m) above ground.

2. To convert tornado speeds from mi/h to m/s, multiply mapped values by 0.447.

2 T inear internolation is nermitted between contoure Point volnes (where chown) are nrovided tol

## Notes :

<!-- image -->

Figure 32.5-1E. Tornado speeds for Risk Category III buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 100,000 ft 2 (9,290 m 2 ).

<!-- image -->

4. Islands, coastal areas, and land boundaries outside the last contour shall use the last tornado speed contour.
5. Tornado speeds correspond to approximately a 3% probability of exceedance in 50 years (annual exceedance probability = 0.000588, MRI = 1,700 years).
6. Location-specific tornado speed is permitted to be determined using the ASCE Tornado Design Geodatabase, available at the ASCE 7 Hazard Tool (http://asce7hazardtool.online) or approved equivalent.

Figure 32.5-1E ( Continued ). Tornado speeds for Risk Category III buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 100,000 ft 2 (9,290 m 2 ).

Notes:

1. Values are 3 s gust speeds in mi/h at 33 ft (10 m) above ground

<!-- image -->

Figure 32.5-1F. Tornado speeds for Risk Category III buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 250,000 ft 2 (23,226 m 2 ).

09

09

0L

<!-- image -->

4. Islands, coastal areas, and land boundaries outside the last contour shall use the last tornado speed contour.
5. Tornado speeds correspond to approximately a 3% probability of exceedance in 50 years (annual exceedance probability = 0.000588, MRI = 1,700 years).
6. Location-specific tornado speed is permitted to be determined using the ASCE Tornado Design Geodatabase, available at the ASCE 7 Hazard Tool (http://asce7hazardtool.online) or approved equivalent.

Figure 32.5-1F ( Continued ). Tornado speeds for Risk Category III buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 250,000 ft 2 (23,226 m 2 ).

50 60

66

<!-- image -->

## Notes :

1. Values are 3 s gust speeds in mi/h at 33 ft (10 m) above ground.

2. To convert tornado speeds from mi/h to m/s, multiply mapped values by 0.447.

3. Linear interpolation is permitted between contours. Point values (where shown) are provided to aid with interpolation.

Figure 32.5-1G. Tornado speeds for Risk Category III buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 1,000,000 ft 2 (92,903 m 2 ).

80

<!-- image -->

4. Islands, coastal areas, and land boundaries outside the last contour shall use the last tornado speed contour.
5. Tornado speeds correspond to approximately a 3% probability of exceedance in 50 years (annual exceedance probability = 0.000588, MRI = 1,700 years).
6. Location-specific tornado speed is permitted to be determined using the ASCE Tornado Design Geodatabase, available at the ASCE 7 Hazard Tool (http://asce7hazardtool.online) or approved equivalent.

Figure 32.5-1G ( Continued ). Tornado speeds for Risk Category III buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 1,000,000 ft 2 (92,903 m 2 ).

Notes:

60

50

80

70

90

<!-- image -->

1. Values are 3 s gust speeds in mi/h at 33 ft (10 m) above ground.

2. To convert tornado speeds from mi/h to m/s, multiply mapped values by 0.447.

3. Linear interpolation is permitted between contours. Point values (where shown) are provided to aid with interpolation.

Figure 32.5-1H. Tornado speeds for Risk Category III buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 4,000,000 ft 2 (371,612 m 2 ).

100

106

<!-- image -->

4. Islands, coastal areas, and land boundaries outside the last contour shall use the last tornado speed contour.
5. Tornado speeds correspond to approximately a 3% probability of exceedance in 50 years (annual exceedance probability = 0.000588, MRI = 1,700 years).

6. Location-specific tornado speed is permitted to be determined using the ASCE Tornado Design Geodatabase, available at the ASCE 7 Hazard Tool (http://asce7hazardtool.online) or approved equivalent.

Figure 32.5-1H ( Continued ). Tornado speeds for Risk Category III buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 4,000,000 ft 2 (371,612 m 2 ).

Notes:

<!-- image -->

Figure 32.5-2A. Tornado speeds for Risk Category IV buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 1 ft 2 (0.1 m 2 ).

<!-- image -->

4. Islands, coastal areas, and land boundaries outside the last contour shall use the last tornado speed contour.
5. Tornado speeds correspond to approximately a 1.7% probability of exceedance in 50 years (annual exceedance probability = 0.00033, MRI = 3,000 years).

6. Location-specific tornado speed is permitted to be determined using the ASCE Tornado Design Geodatabase, available at the ASCE 7 Hazard Tool (http://asce7hazardtool.online) or approved equivalent.

Figure 32.5-2A ( Continued ). Tornado speeds for Risk Category IV buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 1 ft 2 (0.1 m 2 ).

Notes:

1. Values are 3 s gust speeds in mi/h at 33 ft (10 m) above ground.

<!-- image -->

Figure 32.5-2B. Tornado speeds for Risk Category IV buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 2,000 ft 2 (186 m 2 ).

<!-- image -->

4. Islands, coastal areas, and land boundaries outside the last contour shall use the last tornado speed contour.
5. Tornado speeds correspond to approximately a 1.7% probability of exceedance in 50 years (annual exceedance probability = 0.00033, MRI = 3,000 years).
6. Location-specific tornado speed is permitted to be determined using the ASCE Tornado Design Geodatabase, available at the ASCE 7 Hazard Tool (http://asce7hazardtool.online) or approved equivalent.

Figure 32.5-2B ( Continued ). Tornado speeds for Risk Category IV buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 2,000 ft 2 (186 m 2 ).

Notes:

<!-- image -->

## Notes :

1. Values are 3 s gust speeds in mi/h at 33 ft (10 m) above ground.

2. To convert tornado speeds from mi/h to m/s, multiply mapped values by 0.447.

3. Linear interpolation is permitted between contours. Point values (where shown) are provided to aid with interpolation.

Figure 32.5-2C. Tornado speeds for Risk Category IV buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 10,000 ft 2 (929 m 2 ).

50

60

<!-- image -->

4. Islands, coastal areas, and land boundaries outside the last contour shall use the last tornado speed contour.
5. Tornado speeds correspond to approximately a 1.7% probability of exceedance in 50 years (annual exceedance probability = 0.00033, MRI = 3,000 years).
6. Location-specific tornado speed is permitted to be determined using the ASCE Tornado Design Geodatabase, available at the ASCE 7 Hazard Tool (http://asce7hazardtool.online) or approved equivalent.

Figure 32.5-2C ( Continued ). Tornado speeds for Risk Category IV buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 10,000 ft 2 (929 m 2 ).

Notes:

<!-- image -->

## Notes :

1. Values are 3 s gust speeds in mi/h at 33 ft (10 m) above ground.

2. To convert tornado speeds from mi/h to m/s, multiply mapped values by 0.447.

3. Linear interpolation is permitted between contours. Point values (where shown) are provided to aid with interpolation.

Figure 32.5-2D. Tornado speeds for Risk Category IV buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 40,000 ft 2 (3,716 m 2 ).

50

60

70

<!-- image -->

4. Islands, coastal areas, and land boundaries outside the last contour shall use the last tornado speed contour.
5. Tornado speeds correspond to approximately a 1.7% probability of exceedance in 50 years (annual exceedance probability = 0.00033, MRI = 3,000 years).

6. Location-specific tornado speed is permitted to be determined using the ASCE Tornado Design Geodatabase, available at the ASCE 7 Hazard Tool (http://asce7hazardtool.online) or approved equivalent.

Figure 32.5-2D ( Continued ). Tornado speeds for Risk Category IV buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 40,000 ft 2 (3,716 m 2 ).

Notes

<!-- image -->

## Notes :

1. Values are 3 s gust speeds in mi/h at 33 ft (10 m) above ground.

2. To convert tornado speeds from mi/h to m/s, multiply mapped values by 0.447.

3. Linear interpolation is permitted between contours. Point values (where shown) are provided to aid with interpolation.

Figure 32.5-2E. Tornado speeds for Risk Category IV buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 100,000 ft 2 (9,290 m 2 ).

80

86

<!-- image -->

4. Islands, coastal areas, and land boundaries outside the last contour shall use the last tornado speed contour.
5. Tornado speeds correspond to approximately a 1.7% probability of exceedance in 50 years (annual exceedance probability = 0.00033, MRI = 3,000 years).
6. Location-specific tornado speed is permitted to be determined using the ASCE Tornado Design Geodatabase, available at the ASCE 7 Hazard Tool (http://asce7hazardtool.online) or approved equivalent.

Figure 32.5-2E ( Continued ). Tornado speeds for Risk Category IV buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 100,000 ft 2 (9,290 m 2 ).

Notes:

50

60

70 71

<!-- image -->

3. Linear interpolation is permitted between contours. Point values (where shown) are provided to aid with interpolation.

Figure 32.5-2F. Tornado speeds for Risk Category IV buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 250,000 ft 2 (23,226 m 2 ).

80

90

<!-- image -->

4. Islands, coastal areas, and land boundaries outside the last contour shall use the last tornado speed contour.
5. Tornado speeds correspond to approximately a 1.7% probability of exceedance in 50 years (annual exceedance probability = 0.00033, MRI = 3,000 years).
6. Location-specific tornado speed is permitted to be determined using the ASCE Tornado Design Geodatabase, available at the ASCE 7 Hazard Tool (http://asce7hazardtool.online) or approved equivalent.

Figure 32.5-2F ( Continued ). Tornado speeds for Risk Category IV buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 250,000 ft 2 (23,226 m 2 ).

Notas'

## Notes :

50

80

70

89

<!-- image -->

Figure 32.5-2G. Tornado speeds for Risk Category IV buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 1,000,000 ft 2 (92,903 m 2 ).

60

100

106

<!-- image -->

4. Islands, coastal areas, and land boundaries outside the last contour shall use the last tornado speed contour.
5. Tornado speeds correspond to approximately a 1.7% probability of exceedance in 50 years (annual exceedance probability = 0.00033, MRI = 3,000 years).
6. Location-specific tornado speed is permitted to be determined using the ASCE Tornado Design Geodatabase, available at the ASCE 7 Hazard Tool (http://asce7hazardtool.online) or approved equivalent.

Figure 32.5-2G ( Continued ). Tornado speeds for Risk Category IV buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 1,000,000 ft 2 (92,903 m 2 ).

Notes:

## Notes :

60 50

90

100

80

104

<!-- image -->

3. Linear interpolation is permitted between contours. Point values (where shown) are provided to aid with interpolation.

Figure 32.5-2H. Tornado speeds for Risk Category IV buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 4,000,000 ft 2 (371,612 m 2 ).

70

110

120

<!-- image -->

4. Islands, coastal areas, and land boundaries outside the last contour shall use the last tornado speed contour.
5. Tornado speeds correspond to approximately a 1.7% probability of exceedance in 50 years (annual exceedance probability = 0.00033, MRI = 3,000 years).
6. Location-specific tornado speed is permitted to be determined using the ASCE Tornado Design Geodatabase, available at the ASCE 7 Hazard Tool (http://asce7hazardtool.online) or approved equivalent.

Figure 32.5-2H ( Continued ). Tornado speeds for Risk Category IV buildings and other structures, for effective plan area of 4,000,000 ft 2 (371,612 m 2 ).

Table 32.6-1. Tornado Directionality Factor, KdT .

| Structure Type                                                                                                                 | Tornado Directionality Factor, K dT   |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------|
| Buildings                                                                                                                      |                                       |
| Main wind force resisting system                                                                                               | 0.80                                  |
| Components and cladding                                                                                                        |                                       |
| For Essential Facilities and for buildings and other structures required to maintain the functionality of Essential Facilities | 1.0                                   |
| Roof Zone 1 ′ as shown in Figure 30.3-2A                                                                                       | 0.90                                  |
| All other cases                                                                                                                | 0.75                                  |
| Arched roofs, circular domes, and all other structures                                                                         | Use value from Table 26.6-1           |

Table 32.10-1. Tornado Velocity Pressure Exposure Coefficients, KzTor and KhTor .

| Height above Ground Level, z or h   | Height above Ground Level, z or h   |   K zTor and K hTor |
|-------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|---------------------|
| ft                                  | m                                   |                     |
| 0 - 200                             | 0 - 61.0                            |                1    |
| 250                                 | 76.2                                |                0.96 |
| 300                                 | 91.4                                |                0.92 |
| > 328                               | > 100                               |                0.9  |

## Notes :

1. The tornado velocity pressure exposure coef fi cient, KzTor , is permitted to be determined as follows:
2. Linear interpolation for intermediate values of height z is permitted.

For 0 &lt; z ≤ 200 ft (60 m)

KzTor = 1.0

For 200 &lt; z ≤ 328 ft

KzTor = [(2820 - z )/2620] 2 , where z is in ft

(For 61 &lt; z ≤ 100 m)

KzTor = [(861 - z )/800] 2 , where z is in m)

For z &gt; 328 ft (100 m)

KzTor = 0.90

Table 32.13-1. Main Wind Force Resisting System and Components and Cladding Tornado Internal Pressure Coefficient, ( GCpiT ).

| Enclosure Classification                                        | Criteria for Enclosure Classification   | Internal Pressure Combined with Atmospheric Pressure Change   | Tornado Internal Pressure Coefficient, (GC piT )   |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------|
| Sealed other structures Enclosed buildings and other structures | See Section 32.2 See Table 26.13-1      | Extreme High                                                  | +1.0 +0.55 - 0.18                                  |
| Partially enclosed buildings and other structures               | See Table 26.13-1                       | High                                                          | þ 0.55 - 0.55                                      |
| Partially open buildings and other structures                   | See Table 26.13-1                       | Moderate                                                      | þ 0.18 - 0.18                                      |
| Open buildings and other structures                             | See Table 26.13-1                       | Negligible                                                    | 0.00                                               |

## Notes :

1. Plus and minus signs signify pressures acting toward and away from the internal surfaces, respectively.
2. Values of ( GCpiT ) shall be used with qz or qh as speci fi ed.
3. Two cases shall be considered to determine the critical load requirements for the appropriate condition:
4. (a) A positive value of ( GCpiT ) applied to all internal surfaces, or
5. (b) A negative value of ( GCpiT ) applied to all internal surfaces.

32.13.1 Reduction Factor for Large-Volume Buildings, Ri For a partially enclosed building containing a single, unpartitioned large volume, the internal pressure coef fi cient, ( GCpiT ), is permitted to be multiplied by the reduction factor, Ri , as determined in Section 26.13.1.

## 32.14 TORNADO EXTERNAL PRESSURE COEFFICIENTS

External pressure coef fi cients Cp and ( GCp ) shall be determined from the applicable sections of Chapters 27, 29, 30, and 31, and multiplied by the tornado pressure coef fi cient adjustment factor for vertical winds, KvT , as speci fi ed in Table 32.14-1 and in accordance with Sections 32.15 through 32.17.

## 32.15 TORNADO LOADS ON BUILDINGS: MAIN WIND FORCE RESISTING SYSTEM

32.15.1 Enclosed, Partially Enclosed, and Partially Open Buildings Section 27.3.1 shall apply for determination of MWFRS loads for buildings of all heights, as modi fi ed in this section. Design tornado pressures, pT , for the MWFRS of enclosed, partially enclosed, and partially open buildings of all heights shall be determined in accordance with the following equation, which replaces Equation (27.3-1):

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where q = qzT For external pressure on all walls evaluated at height z above the ground, lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 ),

q = qhT For external pressure on roofs evaluated at height h , lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 ), qi = qhT For internal pressure evaluation of roofs of enclosed and partially open buildings, lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 ),

qi = qzT For internal pressure evaluation of walls of enclosed and partially open buildings, lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 ), qi = qzop For internal pressure evaluation of the roof and all walls in partially enclosed buildings, where height z op is de fi ned as the level of the lowest opening in the building that could affect the positive internal pressure, lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 ). Glazed openings not meeting the protection requirements of Section 32.12.3.1 shall be considered as openings,

GT = Tornado gust-effect factor from Section 32.11,

KdT = Tornado directionality factor from Section 32.6,

KvT = Tornado pressure coef fi cient adjustment factor from Section 32.14,

Cp = External pressure coef fi cient from Section 27.3.1, and ð GCpiT Þ = Tornado internal pressure coef fi cient from Section 32.13.

32.15.1.1 Elevated Buildings Section 27.3.1.1 shall apply for determination of MWFRS loads on elevated buildings, as modi fi ed in this section. The design tornado pressure, pT , for the effects of tornado pressure on the MWFRS shall be determined in accordance with Equation (32.15-1), where KvT = 1.0 for lateral loads on elements below the elevated building and vertical loads on the horizontal bottom surfaces of the elevated building.

32.15.2 Open Buildings with Monoslope, Pitched, or Troughed Free Roofs Section 27.3.2 shall apply for determination of MWFRS loads on open buildings, as modi fi ed in this section. The net design tornado pressure, pT , for the MWFRS of open buildings with monoslope, pitched, or troughed free roofs shall be determined in accordance with Section 27.3.2 and the following equation, which replaces Equation (27.3-2):

Table 32.14-1. Tornado Pressure Coefficient Adjustment Factor for Vertical Winds, KvT .

| STRUCTURE TYPE                                                 | K vT                        |
|----------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------|
| Buildings                                                      |                             |
| Negative (Uplift) Pressures on Roofs                           |                             |
| Main Wind Force Resisting System                               | 1.1                         |
| Components and Cladding                                        |                             |
| Roof slope ≤ 7 degrees                                         |                             |
| Zone 1                                                         | 1.2                         |
| Zone 2                                                         | 1.05                        |
| Zone 3                                                         | 1.05                        |
| Roof slope > 7 degrees                                         |                             |
| Zone 1                                                         | 1.2                         |
| Zone 2                                                         | 1.2                         |
| Zone 3                                                         | 1.3                         |
| Positive Pressures (Downward Acting) on Roofs                  | 1.0                         |
| Wall Pressures                                                 | 1.0                         |
| All Other Cases                                                | 1.0                         |
| Other Structures                                               |                             |
| Negative (Uplift) Pressures on Rooftop Structures and          |                             |
| Main Wind Force Resisting System                               | 1.1                         |
| Components and Cladding                                        | values for building C&C 1.1 |
| Negative (Uplift) Pressures on Roofs of Bins, Silos, and Tanks |                             |
| Main Wind Force Resisting System                               |                             |
| Components and Cladding                                        | See Section 32.17.5         |
| All Other Cases                                                | 1.0                         |

where

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

qhT = Tornado velocity pressure from Section 32.10.2 evaluated at mean roof height h , lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 ),

GT = Tornado gust-effect factor from Section 32.11,

KdT = Tornado directionality factor from Section 32.6, and

CN = Net pressure coef fi cient from Section 27.3.2.

32.15.3 Roof Overhangs Section 27.3.3 shall apply for determination of MWFRS loads on roof overhangs.

32.15.4 Parapets Section 27.3.4 shall apply for determination of MWFRS loads on parapets, as modi fi ed in this section. The design tornado pressure, ppt , for the effects of parapets on the MWFRS shall be determined in accordance with the following equation, which replaces Equation (27.3-3):

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where ppT = Combined net tornado design pressure on the parapet caused by the combination of the net pressures from the front and back parapet surfaces, lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 ). Plus (and minus) signs signify net pressure acting toward (and away from) the front (exterior) side of the parapet;

qpT = Tornado velocity pressure from Section 32.10.2 evaluated at the top of the parapet, lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 );

KdT = Tornado directionality factor from Section 32.6; and ð GCpn Þ = Combined net pressure coef fi cient from Section 27.3.4.

32.15.5 Design Load Cases The design load cases shall be determined using Section 27.3.5. The exception for buildings meeting the requirements of Section D1 of Appendix D shall not apply.

## 32.16 TORNADO LOADS ON BUILDING APPURTENANCES AND OTHER STRUCTURES: MAIN WIND FORCE RESISTING SYSTEM

32.16.1 General Requirements The design tornado speed in Section 32.5 for rooftop structures and equipment, including rooftop solar panels, shall equal that used for design of the building.

The effective plan area for freestanding walls and solid signs shall be equal to the wall or sign length squared divided by 20 but shall not be taken smaller than the length multiplied by the width. The length of the wall or sign shall be calculated as the distance between expansion joints.

32.16.2 Solid Freestanding Walls and Solid Signs Section 29.3 shall apply for determination of MWFRS loads on solid freestanding walls and solid signs, as modi fi ed in this section. The design tornado force, FT , for solid freestanding walls and solid freestanding signs shall be determined in accordance with following equation, which replaces Equation (29.3-1):

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where qzT = Tornado velocity pressure from Section 32.10.2 evaluated at the centroid of area, As , of the wall or sign, lb/ft2 (N/m 2 );

GT = Tornado gust-effect factor from Section 32.11;

KdT = Tornado directionality factor from Section 32.6;

Cf = Net force coef fi cient from Figure 29.3-1; and

As = Gross area of the solid freestanding wall or freestanding solid sign, ft 2 (m 2 ).

32.16.3 Other Structures Section 29.4 shall apply for determination of MWFRS loads on other structures (chimneys, tanks, open signs, single-plane open frames, and trussed towers), as modi fi ed in this section. The design tornado force, FT , for other structures, whether ground or roof mounted, shall be determined in accordance with the following equation, which replaces Equation (29.4-1):

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where qzT = Tornado velocity pressure from Section 32.10.2 evaluated at height z , as de fi ned in Section 26.10, of the centroid of area Af , lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 );

GT = Tornado gust-effect factor from Section 32.11;

KdT = Tornado directionality factor from Section 32.6;

Cf = Force coef fi cients from Section 29.4; and

A f = Projected area normal to the tornadic wind from Section 29.4, ft 2 (m 2 ).

32.16.3.1 Trussed Towers Trussed towers and other open lattice-type structures shall be designed for an additional 40 ft 2 (3.7 m 2 ) of projected surface area of clinging debris at midheight of the structure or 50 ft (15 m), whichever is less.

32.16.3.2 Rooftop Structures and Equipment for Buildings Section 29.4.1 shall apply for determination of MWFRS loads on rooftop structures and equipment, as modi fi ed in this section. The lateral design tornado force, F hT , and vertical design tornado force, F vT , for rooftop structures and equipment, except as otherwise speci fi ed for roof-mounted solar panels (Sections 32.16.3.4 and 32.16.3.5) and structures identi fi ed in Section 32.16.3, shall be determined as follows.

The resultant lateral force, FhT , shall be applied at a height above the roof surface equal to or greater than the centroid of the projected area, Af , and determined in accordance with the following equation, which replaces Equation (29.4-2):

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where qhT = Tornado velocity pressure from Section 32.10.2 evaluated at mean roof height h , lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 ),

KdT = Tornado directionality factor from Section 32.6,

ð GCr Þ = Product of external pressure coef fi cient and gust-effect factor from Section 29.4.1, and

Af = Vertical projected area of the rooftop structure or equipment from Section 29.4.1, ft 2 (m 2 ).

The vertical uplift design tornado force, FvT , on rooftop structures and equipment shall be determined in accordance with the following equation, which replaces Equation (29.4-3):

where

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

qhT = Tornado velocity pressure from Section 32.10.2 evaluated at mean roof height h , lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 ),

KdT = Tornado directionality factor from Section 32.6,

KvT = Tornado pressure coef fi cient adjustment factor from Section 32.14,

ð GCr Þ = Product of external pressure coef fi cient and gust-effect factor from Section 29.4.1, and

Ar = Horizontal projected area of rooftop structure or equipment, ft 2 (m 2 ).

32.16.3.3 Roofs of Isolated Circular Bins, Silos, and Tanks Section 29.4.2.2 shall apply for determination of MWFRS loads on the roofs of isolated circular bins, silos, and tanks, as modi fi ed in this section. The net design tornado pressures shall be determined in accordance with the following equation, which replaces Equation (29.4-4):

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

pT

where

½

ð

Þ ð

Þ

qhT = Tornado velocity pressure from Section 32.10.2 evaluated at mean roof height h , lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 ),

GT = Tornado gust-effect factor from Section 32.11,

KdT = Tornado directionality factor from Section 32.6,

KvT = Tornado pressure coef fi cient adjustment factor from Section 32.14,

Cp = External pressure coef fi cient from Section 29.4.2.2, and ð GCpiT Þ = Tornado internal pressure coef fi cient from Section 32.13.

32.16.3.4 Rooftop Solar Panels for Buildings of All Heights with Flat Roofs or Gable or Hip Roofs with Slopes Less Than 7 Degrees Section 29.4.3 shall apply for determination of MWFRS loads on rooftop photovoltaic panels for buildings of all heights with fl at roofs or gable or hip roofs with slopes less than 7 degrees, as modi fi ed in this section. The design tornado pressure, pT , for rooftop photovoltaic panels shall be determined by the following equation, which replaces Equation (29.4-5):

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

=

qhT

GTKdT KvT Cp

-

GCpiT

N

∕

m 2

(32.16-5.SI)

where qhT = Tornado velocity pressure from Section 32.10.2 evaluated at mean roof height h , lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 ),

KdT = Tornado directionality factor from Section 32.6, and ð GCrn Þ = Net pressure coef fi cient from Section 29.4.3.

32.16.3.5 Rooftop Solar Panels Parallel to the Roof Surface on Buildings of All Heights and Roof Slopes Section 29.4.4 shall apply for determination of MWFRS loads on rooftop photovoltaic panels parallel to the roof surface on buildings of all heights and roof slopes as modi fi ed in this section. The design tornado pressure, pT , for rooftop photovoltaic panels shall be determined in accordance with the following equation, which replaces Equation (29.4-7):

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where qhT = Tornado velocity pressure from Section 32.10.2 evaluated at mean roof height h , lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 );

KdT = Tornado directionality factor from Section 32.6;

KvT = Tornado pressure coef fi cient adjustment factor from Section 32.14;

ð GCp Þ = External pressure coef fi cient from Section 29.4.4;

γ a = Solar panel pressure equalization factor from Section 29.4.4.

γ E = Array edge factor from Section 29.4.4; and

## 32.17 TORNADO LOADS: COMPONENTS AND CLADDING

32.17.1 Low-Rise Buildings Section 30.3 shall apply for determination of component and cladding tornado loads on low-rise buildings, as modi fi ed in this section. The design tornado pressures, pT , on C&amp;C elements in low-rise buildings and buildings with h ≤ 60 ft ( h ≤ 18.3 m) shall be determined in accordance with the following equation, which replaces Equation (30.3-1):

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where qhT = Tornado velocity pressure from Section 32.10.2 evaluated at mean roof height h , lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 );

KdT = Tornado directionality factor from Section 32.6;

KvT = Tornado pressure coef fi cient adjustment factor from Section 32.14;

( GCp ) = External pressure coef fi cient from Section 30.3; and ð GCpiT Þ = Tornado internal pressure coef fi cient from Section 32.13.

32.17.1.1 Bottom Horizontal Surfaces of Elevated Buildings Section 30.3.2.1 shall apply for determination of C&amp;C loads on bottom horizontal surfaces of elevated buildings, as modi fi ed in this section. The design tornado pressure, pT , for the effects of tornado pressure on C&amp;C shall be determined in accordance with Equation (32.17-1), where KvT = 1.0.

32.17.2 Buildings with h &gt; 60 ft ( h &gt; 18.3 m) Section 30.4 shall apply for the determination of component and cladding tornado loads on buildings with h &gt; 60 ft ( h &gt; 18.3 m), as modi fi ed in this section. The design tornado pressures, pT , on C&amp;C elements for all buildings with h &gt; 60 ft ( h &gt; 18.3 m) shall be determined in accordance with the following equation, which replaces Equation (30.4-1):

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where q = qzT For external pressure on all walls evaluated at height z above the ground, lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 );

where q = For external pressures on roofs evaluated at height h , lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 );

qi = q hT For internal pressure evaluation of roofs of enclosed and partially open buildings, lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 );

- qi = q zT For internal pressure evaluation of walls of enclosed and partially open buildings, lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 );

q i = qzop For internal pressure evaluation of the roof and all walls in partially enclosed buildings, where height zop is de fi ned as the level of the lowest opening in the building that could affect the positive internal pressure, lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 ). Glazed openings not meeting the protection requirements of Section 32.12.3.1 shall be considered as openings;

KdT = Tornado directionality factor from Section 32.6;

KvT = Tornado pressure coef fi cient adjustment factor from Section 32.14;

( GCp ) = External pressure coef fi cient from Section 30.4; and ð GCpiT Þ = Tornado internal pressure coef fi cient from Section 32.13.

32.17.2.1 Bottom Horizontal Surfaces of Elevated Buildings Section 30.5.2.1 shall apply for determination of C&amp;C loads on bottom horizontal surfaces of elevated buildings, as modi fi ed in this section. The design tornado pressure, pT , for the effects of tornado pressure on C&amp;C shall be determined in accordance with Equation (32.17-1), where KvT = 1.0, and the tornado velocity pressure, q , shall be calculated at the height speci fi ed in Section 30.5.2.1, subparagraph 1.

32.17.3 Open Buildings Section 30.5 shall apply for the determination of component and cladding tornado loads on open buildings, as modi fi ed in this section. The net tornado design pressures, pT , for C&amp;C elements of open buildings of all heights shall be determined in accordance with the following equation, which replaces Equation (30.5-1):

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

qhT = Tornado velocity pressure from Section 32.10.2 evaluated at mean roof height h , lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 );

GT = Tornado gust-effect factor from Section 32.11;

KdT = Tornado directionality factor from Section 32.6; and C N = Net pressure coef fi cient from Section 30.5.

## 32.17.4 Building Appurtenances and Rooftop Structures and Equipment

32.17.4.1 Parapets Section 30.6 shall apply for determination of component and cladding tornado loads on parapets, as modi fi ed in this section. The design tornado pressures, pT , on C&amp;Celements of parapets for all building types and heights shall be determined in accordance with the following equation, which replaces Equation (30.6-1):

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

qpT = Tornado velocity pressure from Section 32.10.2 evaluated at the top of the parapet, lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 );

KdT = Tornado directionality factor from Section 32.6;

( GCp ) = External pressure coef fi cient from Section 30.8; and ( GCpiT ) = Tornado internal pressure coef fi cient from Section 32.13, based on the porosity of the parapet envelope.

32.17.4.2 Roof Overhangs Section 30.7 shall apply for determination of component and cladding tornado loads on roof overhangs, as modi fi ed in this section. The design tornado pressures, pT , on C&amp;C elements of roof overhangs for all building types and heights shall be determined in accordance with the following equation, which replaces Equation (30.7-1):

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where qhT = Tornado velocity pressure from Section 32.10.2 evaluated at mean roof height h , lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 );

KdT = Tornado directionality factor from Section 32.6;

KvT = Tornado pressure coef fi cient adjustment factor from Section 32.14;

( GCp ) = External pressure coef fi cient from Section 30; and

( GCpiT ) = Tornado internal pressure coef fi cient from Section 32.13, based on the porosity of the parapet envelope.

32.17.4.3 Attached Canopies on Buildings with h ≤ 60 ft ( h ≤ 18.3 m) Section 30.9 shall apply for determination of component and cladding tornado loads on attached canopies on buildings with h ≤ 60 ft ( h ≤ 18.3 m), as modi fi ed in this section. The design tornado pressures, pT , on C&amp;C elements of attached canopies shall be determined in accordance with the following equation, which replaces Equation (30.9-1):

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where qhT = Tornado velocity pressure from Section 32.10.2 evaluated at mean roof height h , lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 );

KdT = Tornado directionality factor from Section 32.6; and ( GCp ) = Net pressure coef fi cient from Section 30.9.

32.17.5 Nonbuilding Structures Section 30.10 shall apply for determination of component and cladding tornado loads on circular bins, silos, and tanks with h ≤ 120 ft ( h ≤ 36.6 m), as modi fi ed in this section.

32.17.5.1 Isolated Circular Bins, Silos, and Tanks The design tornado pressures, pT , on C&amp;C elements of isolated circular bins, silos and tanks shall be determined in accordance with the following equation, which replaces Equation (30.10-1):

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

<!-- formula-not-decoded -->

where qhT = Tornado velocity pressure from Section 32.10.2 evaluated at mean roof height h , lb/ft 2 (N/m 2 );

KdT = Tornado directionality factor from Section 32.6;

KvT = Tornado pressure coef fi cient adjustment factor. The roof slope for determination of KvT shall be as de fi ned in Figure 30.12-2:

- (1) For roof zones 1 and 2 in Figure 30.12-2, KvT shall equal the Zone 1 value for building roofs from Table 32.14-1, and
- (2) For roof zones 3 and 4 in Figure 30.12-2, KvT shall equal the Zone 2 value for building roofs from Table 32.14-1;

( GCp ) = External pressure coef fi cient from Section 30.10; and ( GCpiT ) = Tornado internal pressure coef fi cient, as follows:

- (1) For internal surface of exterior walls of isolated open-topped circular bins, silos, and tanks, use ( GCpiT ) from Section 30.12.3, and
- (2) In all other cases, use ( GCpiT ) from Section 32.13.

## 32.18 TORNADO LOADS: WIND TUNNEL PROCEDURE

The wind tunnel procedure, as described in Chapter 31, is permitted for determination of external pressure coef fi cients and force coef fi cients for use with the tornado loading provisions of Sections 32.15 through 32.17. The wind tunnel test shall be performed on an isolated building model (without a proximity model) in a boundary layer wind tunnel for open (Exposure C) terrain.

## 32.19 CONSENSUS STANDARDS AND OTHER REFERENCED DOCUMENTS

This section lists the consensus standards and other documents that shall be considered part of this standard to the extent referenced in this chapter.

ASTM E1886. 2019. Standard Test Method for Performance of Exterior Windows, Curtain Walls, Doors, and Impact Protective Systems Impacted by Missile(s) and Exposed to Cyclic Pressure Differentials . ASTM International.

Cited in: Section 32.12.3.1

ASTM E1996. 2020. Standard Specification for Performance of Exterior Windows, Curtain Walls, Doors, and Impact Protective Systems Impacted by Windborne Debris in Hurricanes. ASTM International.

Cited in: Section 32.12.3.1, C32.12.3.1

ANSI/DASMA 115. 2017. Standard Method for Testing Sectional Doors, Rolling Doors, and Flexible Doors: Determination of Structural Performance under Missile Impact and Cyclic Wind Pressure . Door and Access Systems Manufacturers Association International.

Cited in:

Section 32.12.3.1

Downloaded from ascelibrary.org by Serge Terentieff on 03/10/22. Copyright ASCE. For personal use only; all rights reserved.

This page intentionally left blank